This is Jocko podcast number 359 with Echo Charles and me,
Jocko willing. Good evening Echo. Good evening. There was a
loud burst of gunfire and Cowie fell to the ground exposed in
the street. He had taken around to his right femur. The barrage
of enemy gunfire continued to cascade toward him from multiple
enemy positions kicking up dust and sending ricochet and
secondary frag of rock and concrete right at him. Cowie
immediately returned fire but was unable to move quickly to
cover because of the grievous injury to his leg. Within
seconds of hitting the ground, Cowie heard a new weapon enter
the chaos. Michael Montsour, the automatic weapons gunner broke
from his covered position in an adjacent courtyard into the
middle of the street.
In that same moment, Michael sent a long burst of 762
millimeter rounds from his Mark 48 machine gun into enemy
positions. Although carrying a heavy load of equipment, Michael
definitely moved to where Cowie lay wounded and bleeding.
He stood in front of him and used his lean frame and armor as a
shield to protect Cowie from incoming enemy fire.
This gave the wounded seal a reprieve he needed to continue to
call for backup on his radio. Michael's technical acumen was
apparent as he swiftly engaged and suppressed enemy
positions with his Mark 48, effectively known as the pig.
Every second and every round mattered. The other seal began to
prepare Cowie to move while Michael engaged enemy
insurgents. Let's move the other seal shouted.
Michael grabbed Cowie's drag handle on top of his armor and began to pull him
back to the courtyard while still firing his Mark 48.
Cowie looked up at Michael as he dragged him across the road
but the perspective was not what he expected.
Cowie felt as if for just a moment he had left his body below.
He looked down upon the scene as Michael dragged him the snaps and
ricochets of the heavy machine gun of enemy fire continued to hit the ground
around them. Cowie couldn't believe that not one round
had found its intended target. Instantly the light seemed to shift.
Then Cowie saw them two large feathered wings wrapped from behind Michael
around the trio as they moved him out of the street.
Cowie knew in that instant they were not alone in the fight.
Then Cowie was looking up at Michael again.
He could feel the pain and hear the gunfire dust filled the air
and the the sun beat down upon them as they moved.
Once back behind cover the other seal began working on his injured teammate.
The enemy fire picked up again just as Michael finished
reloading. Michael answered with a heavy volley
into the enemy position. JP and the rest of the squad along with their
Iraqi partners joined the firefight minutes later.
Lieutenant Seth Stone the officer in charge of Delta Platoon was deep into
radio comms providing situation updates to the chain of command
coordinating with units in other sectors and facilitating the movement
of the responding soldiers, Marines and Iraqi partners into the fight.
And that right there is an excerpt from a book that has just come out
which is entitled Defend Us in Battle the True Story of MA2 Navy Seal
Medal of Honor recipient Michael A. Monsour.
And the book was written by Michael's father George Monsour along with
Rose Ray who is an author and is also the wife of a seal.
And the book was written by interviewing friends and family
of Michael. Many of the members of Tasking a Bruiser
shared their stories to paint a picture of Michael's bravery.
His character is skilled as a seal.
But of course Michael Monsour was much more than just a seal.
He was a man of compassion, of humor, of love, and of faith.
He was the best.
And he set an incredible example for all who knew him
and for anyone that hears his story. And it's an honor
to have Michael's dad George Monsour here with us tonight
to share some of this incredible story with us.
George, thanks for joining us tonight.
Thanks for having me on. It's an honor to have you down here.
I know it's not that far of a drive but I know it can be a little challenging
sometimes.
But glad you could make it down.
I guess before we get, I guess we have to start at this story
maybe at the beginning with a little bit about you and your background.
So you're originally from Wisconsin, is that right?
Yeah, I was born in La Crosse and my family came from
Lebanon. So there was that transition. So are you first generation American or
second generation? Yeah, it's like half. We're born half.
So I was half of that family. There's like 10 kids.
We're born here and half was born on the other side.
So yeah, so there's a whole kind of a different world,
the Middle Eastern world and the American world. So
yeah, there's things that are always a little different.
And so how long did you stay in Wisconsin for?
Not very long. I think they asked us to leave like the first year.
You know, they told us to get out of Wisconsin.
Went to California. And then it was California. So how old were you when you
ended up in California? That's probably about one.
And that's kind of where the rest of the family was born. I had
two brothers and three sisters. My dad was in World War II and
he had a lot of problems after the war. And he couldn't hold down the job.
And he ended up just being a gambler. So we had kind of a, you know, I mean,
we didn't realize it wasn't the best, but our family was close.
And my mom basically was the one that kept everything together.
And we didn't realize we were poor until somebody told me in school.
And so then as you're growing up, you're growing up in California
in like the 50s and 60s then. Yeah. That had to be pretty.
Is it like, how does it compare with the movies?
Well, we would watch these movies and our TV shows and you'd have
Father Knows Bass and all these fathers are walking around with suits and ties.
I look over at my dad. He's in his skib. He's reading the racing for him.
The only thing he ever says to me is, beer me.
So yeah, I would look at the TV and look at our family.
Not quite the same. So you end up, I mean, you go to school.
Where'd you go to high school? I went to St. John Bosco. It's a boy's school.
I was fortunate that I was a pretty good football player. So it was a good fit.
It was, it was, it was pretty tough. It was priest. These guys served in World War II
and they didn't put up with a lot of nonsense and it was probably the best thing for me.
They made it very clear what I could do and what I couldn't do.
And then so you played football and what was your plan when you graduate, when you graduated?
I mean, nowadays it's like everyone has to go to college, has to go to college.
Did you have that plan or? Yeah, the plan was, because it was the
college prep school, was to go to college, but it was an all-boy school.
So my plan was different when I went to college.
You had to make up for lost time?
I was, anybody wanted to go in the back of my motorcycle? We're good.
So I basically, my grades basically said to me, you're going to get drafted.
So I decided to outsmart them and I joined the Marine Corps.
Awesome. Yeah, you outsmarted them on that one.
So what year was it that you joined the Marine Corps?
68, I went from 68 to 72.
So, I mean, when you, Vietnam is full blown in 1968 when you joined.
Is it just known that you're going to Vietnam?
Yeah, especially in my MOS, it wasn't the MOS I wanted.
I was that guy that was always trying to stay out of the fray, you know, stay in the middle.
But anyway, the problem was if your grades weren't good, then you'd go straight over as a grunt.
I didn't want to be a grunt. So I kept my grades up.
But the thing was, every time you did well in school, you got another school.
I did well in the tests. I got aviation school. And then aviation school, I did well.
And I got helicopters. Helicopters is not where you want to be in the Marine Corps.
Even as you say, like, oh, I went to school for aviation.
And like, that sounds like a, you know, okay, you're going to go load in this
trailer, you're going to work on aircraft. Exactly.
In Vietnam, that's a little bit different. It's a little bit of a different outcome.
I got there and I says, hey, you know, this wasn't the deal. You know, when you sign up,
they tell you one thing, but you don't always get what you want. And I certainly didn't.
It was like, this wasn't the deal. And the guy goes, you'll have more schools.
Don't worry about it. The last school I went to was machine gun, 50-cow machine gun school.
That was it. What was the shock of boot camp like?
Like, actually, playing basketball, football wasn't, the boot camp wasn't a big deal.
We had a coach that carried a baseball bat.
And I remember since it was a Catholic school, he told us why God gave his heads.
And that was to punish the other players. And they had this bat and we had the cages and
he would smack you in the head with the bat just so you understood what you're supposed to use
your head for. And I remember we had a game, I think it was Venice, and we were just brutal.
We weren't brutal on purposes. That's the way we were trained to hit.
And the principal wrote a letter to the school after, you know, after the game, just trash.
We didn't cheat or anything. We played a straight game, but we laid people out.
So, when he caught boot camp, it was perfectly fine.
Yeah, it was fine. I had a couple of problems.
Just understanding it, because I really, my family served World War II, Korean War.
And as you know, my sons all served in the Marine Corps other than Mike.
But I didn't get it. I was like, I thought you go in and, you know, you get paid,
I thought at least minimum wage, and all the military stuff. It just wasn't used to because
my father was definitely, you don't get a lot of discipline from a professional game.
So, it was another world for me. The most discipline I got was at St. John Bosco.
But I remember on payday, you go in, you get a little bit of money to get your soap and those
type of things. And so they gave us instructions. They says, you go in there, you march in there,
you make a right turn, then a left turn, then you send yourself in front of the CO's desk.
He will push a book in front of you, you look down and look at that paybook,
and you will say, the pay is correct, sir, and look straight ahead. So, I'm thinking, okay,
I do it perfect. And I look down and I say, 36 dollars.
Where's your military buried? And I for 36 dollars.
So, they finally got my attention and got me squared away. I was a private for quite a while.
So, the last school you went to was 50 Cal School, but they sent you to the Hilo School.
And then what year did you deploy to Vietnam? It was, I think it was 19. So, it was 69.
And got back in, yeah, August 69, I think it was. I think it was August 69.
And how was the deployment? How did you get over there? Did you take a charter aircraft over there?
Yeah, we took a, I think it was a pan am. That was just a zoo. I mean, the officers were in front,
and the snow peas were in the back. And you could just see it on those stewardship's faces,
which one they wanted to be, the front or the back. It was a long flight and it was 16 hours.
And we landed once for fuel in Hawaii, and they literally wouldn't let us get off.
They had the guards out there. I'm thinking they pass the message to us or what.
And then we finally got in and started sorting out where we were going to go. And I was really
fortunate in the long run because you know how this works, you just, you're a number and these
guys will go here and these guys will go here. And I just skated through the whole deal. I ended up
in only going there for just a little bit. And then I was simply at Okinawa most of the time.
And I started feeling guilty because, you know, my friends were over there. And then when they
were coming back, some big changes. And it really broke my heart. And I got, I feel so guilty.
I was just there for a blank. So, you know how you're in this service and you just don't understand
how certain things happen. You know, it's like how a close friend, you know, will go and or
some of them come back and they just screwed up. And it reminded me of my dad. And that's why
I didn't get my dad until I was in the Marine Corps. And I realized I would go to the hospital
at Veterans Hospital when he was young and had these breakdowns. But I still couldn't get it
through my head what was going on. Then after I saw the vets coming back in Okinawa where you're
getting cleaned up, ready to go, you realize there's some guys that really got hit hard mentally
and physically too. But mentally is really something that just doesn't go away.
What did your, what did your dad do in World War II? Was he in the Army? Was he in the Marine Corps?
My dad was, he's actually a super athlete. He was a Golden Glove champion. He was the
Fleet Naval champion. And back then there was a lot of, that's where all the men were. But he was
in the Navy and he was on, I don't know what they call them, like a pom-pom guns or something.
They're on an air battleship and his job was to protect the aircraft or the planes on the aircraft
carrier. And a friend of his was telling me, my dad would take it just bad if they hit those ships.
He just thought it was, he had to get everyone. And he says that if they were taking fire he would
stay right on that gun. So yeah, the films of the World War II, U.S. Navy, is, it's crazy to watch
those things. It's crazy to watch those. And they have actually both sides. You know, they have the
Japanese that are coming in and drop bombs. You can watch those films as well. Yeah. And he was
in all the big ones, you know, the Midway and all that stuff. And so it just, it just mentally
wiped them out. He would have these just, just go off on us. Yeah. It's, it's, I don't think we're
ever going to have a naval war like World War II again, where it's, where the humans are at such a
massive amount of pressure. I mean, of course, something the Navy can always go bad. I mean,
if a vessel, I mean, you don't even need a war. You know, things can happen. But that World War II
from a naval war perspective is just, it's horrendous. I was talking with one of my friends
the other day, even just being, even just firing those big guns, these guys didn't have hearing
protection. You know, many, you know, and right now they're doing all these things with football
and CTE and, and, uh, you know, traumatic brain injury, the TBI. They tell us now in the SEAL teams,
we shoot these rockets, Carl Gustav Rockets and, and they're bit, they, they like rock you, you
know, it's like you get, it's like you just got cracked in the head. And now they're, we used to
just sit down as a range safety officer. We just sit there out there and shoot those things all day
long. And now they're saying you can only shoot three a day and all this stuff. But can you imagine
being like your dad on a, on a naval vessel with the, you're just getting concussion after concussion
after concussion. It's ruthless, ruthless. It's, I don't think people understand how they just take
it for granted. You know, you're 18, 19 years old and, um, or even the SEALs, uh, you guys are in a
firefight. And then next day you go into another one. You're looking at policemen who were in a
firefight for a half hour and they retire, you know, and it's like these kids are out there
and they just get up and do it and do it and do it. And my wife used to worry so much when we
would have these ceremonies and she'd meet the SEALs. And she used to just think, how much are
they carrying around? How much baggage are they carrying around? And, uh, it's just people just
don't realize, um, how we can just, uh, wipe a guy out, have those memories come back and, uh,
they just take it for granted. They, like you say, pros, they got this for them and that. And they
got these young kids that are life and death situations carrying a hundred pounds on their back,
a hundred and some degrees. And that's like to do it again the next day.
And the next day, the next day, the next day, the next day, the, this country doesn't understand
what these guys go through. They don't appreciate it.
So you get done with Vietnam, your deployment to Vietnam, you come home and you're planning
the whole time you're going to do your four years and punch out. Yeah. Uh, that was the plan. And
it was funny. We were gone for 13 months and the world really goes fast. I remember, uh,
my buddies were sitting in the car. We're going to go get some beer. I was, uh, I wasn't even
old. I think I was 20. And, uh, anyway, I go in to get the beer. And, uh, so as I, as I go,
leave, I stop and I go, Hey, wait a minute, I need a church key. And I go as a church key,
a church key back then is what you used to open up. Okay. So yeah. So in the guys looking at me
and he goes, you know, your church, how you open up the beer then. And he goes like this,
pulls the beer out from under the, or soda from under the county. He goes like this. He goes,
you go like this, you know,
oh, so the new cans and come out. I go back to the car and, uh, and the guy, I go, check this out,
guys. The guys go, whoa, where have we been? Yeah. I've had some guys on that were POWs in
Vietnam and like you want, you know, these are guys that got shot down in like 1965, 1966, 1967,
they come back in 1973. It is a whole new world. I mean, it was a whole new world for them.
And even the year, like, I mean, you must be gone 69. That the world changed a lot in that year.
Oh yeah. I mean, uh, we got back, they really hated us. I was stunned. How many people hated us.
And, uh, I'm thinking, what did we do? It was come out and insult us. Uh, you know, I remember, uh,
uh, I was at the airport and back then you had to fly on your uniforms and, uh, it was not a good
idea all the time. You were like targets. And I had a woman is up in San Francisco, just rush up to
me and she's got her children and she just hates me and I don't even know her. And, uh, she says,
she says, she says, how do you kill babies? And it's like, and I started thinking, why should I
take her seriously? It's like, well, we try to give them a little bit more lead, you know, because
they're quick. I'm sure she appreciated it. Oh, she didn't appreciate it. But you know, it's like,
how long do we keep taking it? Yeah. Yeah. So, uh, yeah, they, uh, it was, it was weird the way they
treated us, uh, Virginia, I think they had signs dogs and Marines stay off the grass. And I thought,
when are we going to learn this lesson that these guys are called and now they volunteer to do
something that nobody else wants to do. Now they're treating them a lot better, which I totally
appreciate. No, they're definitely, it's definitely a different world for us coming home now.
Yeah. So what'd you do when you got, what'd you do when you got out? Uh, I was totally drifting.
I knew I wanted, I wanted to start a business, but I wasn't quite sure what I wanted to.
I, when I was younger, I was learning the contracting business. I was like a human
wheelbarrow, you know, I just, whatever they wanted loaded up. That's what I would do. So I got into
contracting and, uh, then went to school at night and built a business. Uh, we did, I had a partner
that I went with ever since elementary school. So, uh, we built it up to about 60 guys. And then
from there I bought a, uh, a woman's store for my sister, uh, who went through a divorce and, uh,
figured she needed an income up about a store for, they really didn't make enough money. So I ended
up with, um, uh, uh, four stores in the department in the malls. And then I decided I would, um,
um, uh, start manufacturing clothes. So it just kind of worked that way. And then, uh, I got a,
a 300 seat restaurant bar entertainment and, uh, everything, uh, was working just great.
Moving in a nice house, had the kids, wife's happy. So you, what year do you meet? Howie?
I met her before I, uh, I, uh, I went overseas. Okay. I, she was a, uh, car hop.
I remember, uh, watching her and, uh, I just love the way she looked in those slacks.
What's a car hop? A car hop is, uh, you, at, back in the day, uh, you would pull up into,
at a restaurant in the parking lot and the girls would come out and have little cowboy
hats on and stuff. And they had the menu. So you eat right in your car. And this is where a lot
of the young guys would hang out, um, hang out in their cars and go out and check everybody's
cars. And, you know, it was just a real social thing. And I remember, uh, she bends down to
take the order and I see her face and it was just weird. It was like, um, she had her front teeth
or just kind of turned in a little bit and it just, I don't know. I just loved her face.
And, uh, we knew each other for five years, uh, on and off on and off. When I came back,
uh, she was engaged to get married, but it was my fault because I thought that I was going to
go to Vietnam and the life expectancy was not good, uh, sitting behind a 50 Kallin in a helicopter.
So I didn't want her to waste her time. So I says, you know, uh, why don't you go ahead and see
other people? You know, I am, you know, so, you know, good luck. And I come back and I find out she's engaged to get married.
And then I bumped into her at a party and, uh, they just started over again. It was nice.
And, uh, so she broke off the engagement. Yeah. Yeah. Nicely done, George.
I've apologized to her for years. I'm so sorry.
Okay. So you had, you're just basically an entrepreneur. You got restaurants,
you got clothing manufacturing, you got a contract, you got all kinds of stuff going on.
Yeah. And, uh, we had a couple of race horses, which was, uh, it was a lot of fun.
And, uh, it was, it was good. And, uh,
So you had Sarah first Sarah and, uh, then we had Jim and then, uh, Michael and then Joe.
Joe, we almost had in the car.
That was funny. I got to the hospital and, uh, the emergency side, it was at, uh,
it was at Long Beach Memorial. And at that time you had to park on a slope and I just pulled the car up and,
uh, and I ran into the hospital and I said, my wife's having a baby. Get ready. And I grabbed a wheelchair and I go out there.
And because they were on the slope, I'm trying to get her out and the door keeps closing. And then, uh, so I kind of moved myself around.
And then I got my hand on the, on the wheelchair and I finally get her in and she sits back and then the weight pushes the wheelchair back,
pushes my hand. My hand is now, uh, right there down onto the asphalt. And, uh, I'm trying to, uh, get her back up so I can get my hand out.
But it all worked out. We got her in there as soon as we got her up to the, uh, into the elevator. They were right there. They took her and
they told me to change my clothes. I ran in and Joe was already born.
Uh, um, I want to read a section here from the book, uh, when, when Michael was born.
Um, you say this in the book, as they gazed upon their second son in the bright hospital room with his inquisitive brown eyes looking right back at
theirs, his matted dark hair contrasting his fresh soft skin. George knew Michael was the right name for him.
Sally wholeheartedly agreed. He was named after St. Michael, the archangel who in the Old Testament cast out of heaven, all of the fallen angels led by Lucifer and condemn them to eternity in hell.
He was a soldier full of strength and feared nothing. It was a perfect fit. The hospital staff performed their newborn well checks on little Michael.
And after some time had passed, the pediatrician walked into their room. Mrs. Montsour, Michael has jaundice, which is why his skin
has a yellowish tint. It's caused by an excess of pigment. Typically because of obstruction of the bile duct, you will be discharged today, but we will need to keep Michael and put him in an incubator until his levels get lower.
Sally looked back at the doctor. She'd heard what he was telling her, but before she could help herself, she blurted out, doctor, I'm not leaving my son.
That was Sally. The pediatrician fought for a few minutes as he could see the unwavering determination in her eyes.
And that she was adamant about not leaving him. Well, Mrs. Montsour, we'll let you take him home, but you have to agree to set a protocol of treatment in the home, including sitting with him by the window in the sun for two to three hours a day.
If you follow our instructions and he continues to improve, he will not need to stay or come back to the hospital. Thank you so much. I will. I will do everything you need. Sally replied.
So there's, there's Mikey arrives on the scene and he ends up having asthma too. Yeah, it just, it was like from day one, Mikey, Mikey's was like always had a problem and got through that and his skin got better.
And then as he got a little bit older, we realized he was having breathing problems. And then we found out he had asthma, but being Mikey, it wasn't, it's never just a little bit. I mean, it's always full blown and it was rough for years.
Like the asthma?
Yeah, I mean, we would check on him every night, fearful that he would stop breathing. And he, you know, he just, it was just so small and so weak because he really couldn't exert himself. He's looking at his, his brothers and his sisters, our sister, and they're just excelling.
And he's just trying to keep up. They would race in the pool and people are thinking they're swimming, but no, Mikey couldn't swim because he would get so exhausted moving all those body parts. So he would race them by hand over hand along the side of the pool.
He would always compete. He would just find a different way to compete.
And again, look, this book is Defend Us in Battle. It's, it's just an outstanding book. I'm reading small chunks of it, but the stories are just fantastic to read.
This one, I must admit, I felt like I had to read, I had to read this one here. It says,
As he grew older, Michael was often the target of bullying at school as well as on the playground and began to hate it. He felt profoundly for himself, the effects of someone victimizing someone less able to defend themselves in order for them to gratify their own desires.
Even in his youngest years, he was keenly aware of the injustice that took place. One afternoon when Michael was around nine or 10, his father took him to the racetrack to scout out some future horse prospects as their family raced at thoroughbreds at the time.
When they arrived, George began to chat with the trainer and Michael ran off to play on the play sec campground.
As he played with the other children, George noticed three older boys pushing the other children or children around, including Michael. They made a show of it in an effort to demonstrate to all the children that they were in charge.
They took over, they took over the only three swings and refused to get off any of them for the smaller and younger children to use. Not your swing, it's mine now.
They taunted the younger kids. George called Michael back to him and looked at his tears, tear filled eyes.
Come here, Mikey. I know those kids are being bullies, but not every wrong is yours to write.
There's not always justice in the world. Sometimes you just have to move on, George told Michael.
Dad, what is justice? Michael asked, his curiosity perked on hearing the new word.
Justice is getting or giving what is deserved, whether it's reward or punishment.
Mikey, George responded to his son, whom he always called Mikey when it was just the two of them.
George could see his son taking in his words, yet his son's question continued to cut through his thoughts as they headed to their seats to watch the horse race.
He could see in Michael's eyes that the issue was not resolved. After the action packed race, they returned to the area where they met the trainer.
George asked Michael to stay nearby him and wait for him.
But as soon as George was speaking with the trainer, Michael shot off to the playground with fire in his eyes.
Those same boys were again back on the swings taunting the younger children.
Michael ran straight up to them from behind and ripped each boy out of their swing one at a time.
He then sprinted up the play structure and began to climb the ladder that led up to the rocket ship that had multiple layers of slides and ladders.
He knew if he could get to the top, only one bully could get to him at a time and sure enough, they chased him right up after and one by one, he kicked each boy backwards over and over as they tried to attack him.
When he could no longer defend himself, he initiated his escape plan. He leaped through the top rocket opening down the slide and ran as fast as he possibly could back to his father.
This time, with the biggest grin on his face and eyes sparkling with excitement, he knew he was safe with his father by his side and it executed his plan perfectly.
George and Michael got into their car to head back home and George glanced across at his son who sat in the passenger seat, victoriously grinning back at him.
Dad, I think that's justice.
When I was looking at him smiling, I was thinking who was smiling the most because it was just a special day for me and I know he felt so good that he outsmarted the bullies and that was just the beginning on him and bullies.
Yeah, that was like a sly move. That was the thing about Mikey is he was quiet, but you could tell he was plotting.
He was.
He was plotting. So that was like the beginning of him plotting moves.
Trying to figure something out.
So you were doing good. Going back to just family businesses, all this stuff going on. You live in Anaheim Hills, which is a nice spot.
Nice view of the city.
And then economy hit.
Economy and the IRS.
Ouch.
And the IRS, back then, before George Bush Sr., they were, they had carte blanche. They did what they wanted and they would accuse you of something and too bad.
You had to abide by it.
I didn't owe them any money and so I fought and it was an eight year battle.
But that battle really wiped me out and I won. I got a little piece of paper that says George Montser versus the IRS, pay nothing.
I might have been better off just to write them a check.
But I was young. I think I was 30 or something, 31.
And so I just, you know, that's wrong and I'm going to fight for it and maybe I should have negotiated.
But that kind of money, $600 plus penalties like $800,000. Back in the 70s, you're talking about buying seven or eight million dollar houses in today's market.
Yeah.
So anyway, I fought and then it really crushed us business wise and it was, it was amazing really how strong our family was.
Because we went from a pretty nice life to me coming home one day after the banks called me and said, I have been gutted and I had $29 in my pocket.
And it was kind of struck me as like, I thought I'd feel bad about it, but it was, it was just the money was gone.
I still had my family and just work around it.
And I took, I went, my income definitely changed.
Got a job working as a security guard and I took the job because they paid every Friday and I wanted to make sure my kids had groceries.
And so I just did that until I put some deals together and it took a while.
And you moved from Anaheim Hills down to, just when you moved down to Garden Grove?
Yeah. And this area wasn't, wasn't the best.
But it was a good experience for my kids and because they would see it when they had come to the factory with me.
Factory was down in LA and that was pretty rough area.
And they would see looking out the window.
It's, you know, some of these people had it really tough.
And we used to have a bear of a man that would sleep in front of our, in front of the door on the porch every night.
And he would, he wouldn't say anything to me.
It was more of a grunt all the time and he probably had some mental problems.
He was just a huge guy and I asked him, I says, are you sleeping here every night?
And it was just a kind of a grunt.
Was this of your house?
No, this was at the factory and down in LA.
And so I thought to myself, a guy that big, I got no problem with them sleeping here at night because it was a rough area.
So I put blankets out for him and he stayed there for years.
Every morning I would come in, bring him a big breakfast burrito.
He still hardly say anything to grunts and he would roll up his blankets and disappear all day.
And then in the evening he'd come back.
And the kids were fascinated with the sky.
They wanted to be his friend, but he wasn't buying it.
But anyway, they kind of saw that world.
Now we're in an area where it's just a little bit of everything, a sprinkling of all kinds of nationalities.
It was a lower income area and the kids were like, from a nice high school with all their friends are wealthy.
They all go to Europe and all that stuff, which I didn't really like them around those kids all the time
because I didn't want them to think this is the way it is.
I wanted to see the other side.
So it was a good experience.
You've met my kids, you know they're good with whoever.
100%.
They just roll with whatever and the whole family's that way.
So it was good for them.
Sarah wasn't thrilled with it.
Sorry Sarah.
She ended up being a leader on the basketball team and all the kids to grade in sports.
And all in all, I think it was one of the best things that happened.
Well, we've got a, I guess it's some kind of mythological thing in my family that started with when I was growing up at Christmas time.
Apparently my mother's dad, when Christmas would be coming, he would tell everyone it's going to be a lean Christmas.
And so that's what my parents would tell us like, hey, it's going to be a lean Christmas.
And then you know when I was raising my kids and I'm in the Navy and I, you know, I got three kids then four kids.
I didn't have any money.
I've been telling my kids it's going to be a lean Christmas.
And you know, we get like, I remember, you know, we get used presents.
And I mean, I got my, my kids got used presents all the time, used surfboards, used toys.
Everything was just used because it's going to be a lean Christmas.
But you got a story that might that when you moved down, I think it might have been the first Christmas down the garden Grove where you guys didn't have money.
You were looking at a lean Christmas and you got a story here about Mikey who goes out and I think he cut down like you didn't have a Christmas tree.
The deal was you guys were going to do no presents.
We were just going to have a nice dinner and we, we just started to get back on our feet and I had to deal fall apart on me at Christmas.
And so my money's tied up and I can't get it out.
And I just said, look, we just moved into a house still in Garden Grove, but it was quite a step up.
And Michael is one of those guys.
He, he just kind of, okay.
He's plotting.
And so we wake up and we walk out and there's this Italian Cyprus sitting in a bucket of dirt and you put a little sparkly things on there.
There might even been some lights up and there's a little present surrounded and we're all coming in, you know, sit down, sit down, you know.
And he's giving us presents and the presents were hilarious.
I still have the rocks he gave me.
Sally kept the scarf that he got with those throwaways at the racetrack and the kids got like fingernail clippers or little knives and we just roared.
It was just so funny and the way he presented them, you know, and you're looking at your kids and you're thinking,
these are strong kids, you know, they get it and they just roll with with the disappointments, but it was a great Christmas.
And then I remember when we were leaving the house, I don't know where we're going to go, but go out and I look at the car and you look in the front of the house.
And it's that Cyprus.
So you get two Cyprus on one side, you got a Cyprus, the half on the other.
Cyprus, you know, you get your your kids and your neighbors are thinking, they're ever going to fix that.
You know, no, it's a memory.
I think it wasn't fixed in till somebody else bought the house.
And so everyone's playing sports.
Mikey and I playing hockey.
How do you get into hockey?
That's not the Southern California sport.
Anything that rolls or slides, it was just him.
I don't know.
He was like, I remember the first time he was on skates, it was like, I'm looking at
this guy, he's jumping over stuff.
Once he starts moving, it's like in his head, well, maybe I can do this, maybe I can do
this.
It's like when we got him a bike.
Next thing he's building ramps, you know, so you know, high he can go.
Ramps break, he crashes and burns.
He gets right back, builds another ramp.
And hockey, yeah, it surprised me, but he was still smaller than the other kids.
And his edge was really how fast he was on wheels.
And he just really liked the sport.
He got his contact, but because he was on wheels, he could really hit these guys too, and he
was quick.
So if they hit him, he could come back and he felt everything was equal.
And he loved the game, yeah.
And then he also played football as well.
Yeah, he loved football, but he was, you know, he just, he wasn't a big guy, but he had,
you know, he's one of those guys had a lot of heart, always working.
And he took it really serious.
No one was going to run past him.
He was the defensive end.
And that was his territory.
Even if he had to pull the guy's face mask, he was not going to go any place.
I remember he did it and he's double teamed and I see his head reach out, grabs the guy's
face mask.
And I was sitting just right off in the bleachers, he could see me and he looks at me like, you
got to do what you got to do.
Not on my side.
You've got a section in here.
You say Michael's team was getting pummeled by their counterpart junior varsity team,
which included some of the varsity players.
One by one, the JV players on his team began to remove their helmets and quit walking off
the field and defeat and shame.
They were not willing to be humiliated any longer in front of their family or friends
during the guard group football scrimmage.
The clock sounded its horn loud horn for half time and each team jog to the respective
locker rooms as George sat by his old 64 gold Riviera.
I love that car.
Michael ended up with it for a while and waited for the game to resume.
Michael walked past his father with barely a glance in his direction.
George watched curiously as Michael moved around the front of the car and opened the
passenger door to get in.
George confused as to why Michael was not headed back to the field, looked directly
at him.
What happened, Mikey?
Why are you here?
Michael looked up at his father, his whole demeanor ripe with disappointment as he fought
back tears.
Dad, they just quit.
The referee canceled the game because too many of our players quit.
Dad, why would they quit?
We still had a chance.
We could have won.
Mikey, you guys were down by 50 points.
I know, Dad, but the game wasn't over yet.
We had a chance.
He hung his head trying to fathom what had just transpired as he quietly repeated to
himself.
They just quit.
Quitting was not something the Montsourges did.
They were always taught to follow through.
Yeah, we were.
I mean, I had, when they wanted to play a sport, before I put them in that sport, we always
had the same conversation.
You join this team, you're here until the season's over, whether you like the coach,
whether you play or not play, you do not quit.
So they were raised that way.
You make that decision because one of them is children to understand.
They make these decisions, then they have to live by them.
And it's just short little tests, but it was important that they started understanding.
You know, you just on a whim decide you want to play football.
So he was raised like you don't quit.
And all those kids, it was hard on them because they were just getting wasted.
I mean, there was no first down.
There was no completed pass.
They were just totally outclassed.
But Michael always figures there's always a chance.
And if he would have got one touchdown, he would have felt like we have our dignity.
So that's, he was just, he did not like, he didn't mind losing as much if he gave everything,
but just to lose that just wasn't Michael.
He used to have a thing.
He bunk bet.
He was on the bottom and Joe was on the top and he even on his inside, when you woke up
in the morning, there was a little message, you know, never quit.
And he carried that for, you know, his whole life.
Yeah.
He was, he was a believer in once you sat it, then live with it.
You go on to say here, Michael's line harder determination grew stronger as he grueled
or he played as a defensive end for the Argonaut varsity football team while he's in high school
and was known for being one of the hardest workers on the field.
Asthma continued to challenge Michael, but he was not going to let it dictate how he
lived.
Sally remembers how Santa Anna wins coming in from the mountains each fall would affect
Michael's breathing.
One afternoon she opened the door to his bedroom to find him wheezing.
She asked him why he wasn't using his inhaler.
I'm weaning myself off it, mom.
Although unable to fully rid himself of the ailment, Michael would not let it stop him
from accomplishing what he set out to achieve.
So he's just freaking tough.
He is.
He's very determined.
And I think all the, the, the way he was treated, you know, when he was younger, bullies
just they have a sense.
There's the weak one.
And he just made it his life not to be the weak week one.
I mean, I remember when he was in the sixth grade, he told me, he says, it's going to
be over.
He says, this will stop.
Oh, this is the bullying?
Yeah.
He says, this will stop.
And he just determined to get stronger.
And even verbally, I mean, people didn't realize if you know him that his tongue was sharp
when he wasn't, you know, as strong as he would go the other way.
And he would embarrass them.
I mean, he had a very good mind and he would just trash them.
And they know that whatever they would do, he would take it.
I've seen him take these hits knowing he'd come back and say, what happened?
And, you know, his brother would say, Hey, those guys, you know, went after Mike because
he went after them verbally.
And you know, he would fight, but he was just outgunned, but he never would back down.
He was little and he had to pay, you know, all of them had to have a discipline.
We had rules in the family.
And if he wasn't buying the rule, he would literally just, okay, I'll take the two days
in my bedroom or whatever and our bedroom, those bedrooms didn't have TVs and video games.
But I never, never beef about it or anything.
You just take his medicine.
There you go.
Yeah.
He's playing football.
How were his grades in high school?
Here's Michael.
I don't know.
Michael in the sixth grade, it was determined they had very high IQ and it was determined
because we had a meeting and the teacher says he just doesn't do anything.
He ignores me and he doesn't do his homework.
And he goes in there.
As a matter of fact, there's his backpack.
He has to even take it home.
He goes and gets it and he says, you might as well take this home.
And in the backpack had all these papers in it.
So he opens it up.
Teacher opens it up and he's looking at all the homework he did and the tests he took.
He goes, he goes, you know, I think your kid's really pretty smart.
And that's when they start putting him into the, to the higher classes and he was fine
with it.
And he got towards the end of high school, he's bored and I get a letter from the high
school registered letter that says your son has all F's and he's not going to graduate.
Bring him into the office and I say, you understand this family works, right?
I have my job.
You have your job.
Wait, what's the office?
This is in your house.
You have the office.
This is where counseling takes place with the children.
Well, I spent a lot of time in there praying that I had some money in the bank and I just
keep looking at it.
Now it's still the same.
And I says, now this works.
I says, you have a job and the job is to get through school.
That's your job.
And I says, you got straight F's.
They're telling me that you will not graduate.
Do you think that's going to play out with me?
And I says, you know, you won't be living here.
You don't do your job.
You don't live here.
You're gone.
And he just smiles.
And he says, don't worry, dad.
I got this.
And boom, he turns it around.
Straight A's all the way up.
And then he smiles and he goes, I got it.
There's something about him that when he's bored, then he made it harder just to, you
know, test himself.
And the things he did when he was young was always testing himself.
He just, it was almost like, since I had race horses, it was like having a young horse that
she didn't allow him to get out of the stall.
And he just wanted to run and wanted to run.
Michael wanted to run, but he couldn't.
He just wasn't strong enough.
And once he got stronger, he just wanted to run and he did.
So he graduates from high school.
What was his plan when he graduated from high school?
Because he graduated in 99.
Well, and we're in a couple years later.
Yeah.
So what was he doing in the meantime?
His plan was to go into the military, but he wanted to have a good time before he went
into the military.
So we had a good time.
And then I remember telling him, you know, the good times over, it's time for you to
make a decision.
Was Jim in the Marine Corps at this point?
Or had Jim already gone to the Marine Corps?
You know, I can't remember.
I think Jim was in the Marines.
Yeah.
He was in the Marines.
Another one that doesn't say anything to his dad.
Hey, dad, I'm going, I'm going to join the Marines.
Well, would you even join the Marines?
He was, well, I'm going in tomorrow.
What?
And I knew Michael was talking about going in.
I had no idea that that's what's his plan.
In the book, it says that it sounds like you're the one that had kind of told him about the
Seal Teams where he had asked you about it.
He had asked me about it.
And I remember, because we would drop guys off and would you practice things and being
in the Marines to do with Navy guys?
And then we had our recon guys.
So we do a lot of the same things.
Recon?
Everyone forgot about recon.
Anyway, so he was fascinated with it.
You know, like any young kid, he wanted to hear about these guys.
I had no idea what was going on in his head.
And because he was so sickly, he's the last guy I thought that would be a Seal.
And I always thought to myself, he's got a great mind and he's going to be one of those
eggheads and I'm good with that.
But his mind was not thinking that way.
And I was really kind of taken back when I found out after he graduated from Navy Bootcamp.
His instructor told me.
His instructor told you that he was going to try and be a Seal?
He says, you got a great son here.
He goes, this guy is great and he's definitely Seal material.
And what?
And is that the first time you knew that he was going to try and go to Buds or he was going
to Buds?
Yeah, he talked about Seals, but I never really registered that he was serious about that.
And we teased him anyway because he went into the Navy because we were all Marines.
A whole family all the way back to World War II Marines.
And it was like, I was good with it, the Navy.
But then the Seal thing just caught me.
And I still remember he had that funny smile.
So he's in the Navy.
He ends up at Buds.
And Buds is what it is.
And what it is is freaking brutal.
And I'm going to go to the book here.
It was now late fall, 2001.
The days were shorter.
The air was cooler.
Michael was exhausted and decided to head home for the weekend to get some much needed
rest in the midst of vigorous training.
A lot of people don't know this.
When you're at Buds, basic Seal training, people think you get locked away on some island
somewhere.
No, you basically work Monday through Friday and then weekends you recover.
And if you want to recover by drinking, you can do it.
If you want to recover by laying in bed and icing your knees, you can do that too.
It's kind of up to you.
And Michael decided he's going to go home.
So George knew something was wrong as soon as Michael returned home.
Michael wasn't walking right.
And as George looked down at his feet, he could see why.
Michael's socks were bloody and Michael was miserable.
Michael, what are you doing?
You're not going to make it like that.
Dad, I'm not quitting.
Michael, you can't even walk and your feet are a bloody mess.
You're leaving footprints all over the kitchen floor.
I'm not quitting.
Michael bandaged up his feet as best he could and headed back to Coronado Prepair for training
the following day.
The bandages did little to keep the sand out of the lesions on his feet.
And every step he took was like running sandpaper across the open sores, bringing excruciating
pain.
Both feet were an absolute mess, yet Michael pushed on.
The pain continued to build and was not only draining him menly, but rapidly slowed his
pace affecting his ability to perform the required evolutions.
He was disgusted with what had begun to creep into his conscious thought.
He hated to see weakness in others, but hated it even more in himself.
With every pain filled step, it became clearer.
He was forced to acknowledge what he had tried to ignore, the reality that he would not be
able to continue.
It was the 24th hour of the first day of Hell Week, the third week of the six month pipeline,
regarded as the most challenging week of Bud's training cycle when students are expected
to run upwards of 200 miles and are allowed to only 3-4 hours of sleep the entire week.
Michael stood up and did what he thought he would never do.
He walked over to the notorious bell, affixed to a pillar directly in front of the first
phase office, and rang it three times, alerting the whole compound that he was finished.
Michael made a left face, walked achingly down the sidewalk that was already lined with
helmets of those who had not made it to this point.
When he reached the end, he made one more left face, took off his helmet, and placed
it next to the others.
He had quit.
Dang.
It was devastated.
I remember when he told me, and his eyes were just filled with tears, he just could not
believe that he quit.
He just couldn't believe it.
It was just so sad.
I didn't even have words.
I kind of didn't want him to be a seal.
Well, I didn't want him to be a seal.
But I knew how much it meant to him, especially at that moment.
I just really didn't.
I could remember how when they were kids, I would tell them, it's your defeat, and how
do you come back from the defeat?
That's what makes you the man or the woman is the way you come back.
I couldn't even remember that.
I was struck by it.
He was just so sad.
The next morning, he's up making some breakfast.
He says, remember when you say, I'm going to be a seal.
Then it began.
He was back on track, and he was going to be a seal.
He ends up getting state.
Again, the book has so many good details of all this.
Eventually, he ends up getting stationed in Italy, in Aci Trezza, and immediately, and
he's with a couple other guys that are on the same boat he is in.
Man, that program's tough.
They began training.
They began getting ready.
They're swimming.
They're running.
They're cliff jumping, getting into some of this stuff here.
For Michael and his friends, they were determined to push themselves as hard as necessary to
train their bodies for the rigors of buds.
They were getting a second shot, and they knew they were not about to blow it.
They would do whatever it took to be ready this time around.
Michael's most traumatic experience thus far in life was ringing the bell and quitting
buds, and he would not be satisfied without a second chance to prove to himself that he
could do it.
Michael told his younger brother, Joe, that this second time around, they would have to
drag his dead body off the beach before he would quit.
That does not surprise me with Michael.
It scared his brother.
You know, Joe was like, that could be true, dad.
Got some good stories in here about Italy.
They're in Sicily.
They got nightlife.
Michael's buying vehicles.
He buys a Russian truck.
He buys a Lancia.
You say this, Michael also pursed a Lancia, an incredibly fast car with all-wheel drive
and used to cruise it all throughout Italy.
The higher the speed, the better, until one afternoon when Ollie, that's one of his buddies,
got a call from Mike, he had crashed it racing an Audi.
They were flying down the Sicily highway when Mike hit a wet spot and lost control.
It was on.
Lancia spun and slammed directly into the concrete divider wall.
Luckily, he wasn't hurt and was able to get it towed back to his home, but it was not
looking good for the car.
Ollie drove over to Mike's apartment to see how he could help.
First, he saw the car.
It was totaled.
Then he saw Mike beer in hand, steak on the grill, and not a care in the world.
It was good while it lasted, Mike said with his signature smile.
That is Michael.
That is 100%.
I mean, this is just another.
Mike got so many accidents in Italy, he opted to pay $200 a day for extra car rental insurance
just to cover the shenanigans.
He liked freaking vehicles and cars and motorcycles.
That might have been my fault.
I had a motorcycle when I was a kid and I remember Sal always would get on and then
I would drive a little crazy and should reach up into my shirt and pull my chest nose out.
But Mike, when he was little, we had a 64GTO.
That thing, from a dead stop, it would just scream.
Mike was just a little guy and he'd hold on to the handle over the glovebox and he'd
just go, Dad, go.
I'd burn through those gears and fish tailing and he's just in heaven.
We had this long on-route to the freeway where you could see the freeway before you got on.
He had this long ramp and so he knew I could do it there and I would.
So I just burned through the gears and then he can smell the smoke from the tires.
He's just a huge smile.
He said, Dad, we're going 100 miles an hour.
I was like, about half of that.
Give or take 50.
I don't know if I can get on feet.
But he just loved the acceleration.
And I didn't realize that it would have such an effect because he loved fast stuff.
Yeah.
And he just did.
Yeah, including Lancia.
Yeah.
So if parents read this, it's a great book for your children except for that kid slowed
down a little bit.
That might have been a mistake on my part.
Fast forward a little bit here.
It says as the two years came to an end as he inch closer to heading back to Coronado
for a second shot at Buds, Michael felt strong and strong and ready.
Michael still contended with his severe asthma, which caused him to be rarely without his
inhaler, but he would not concede to this ailment in any shape or form.
One afternoon as Chris, that's another one of his buddies talks about and Mike ran side
by side on one of their last hard runs.
Mike pushed himself harder and harder to beat his friend Chris.
Chris pulled ahead, it pissed off Mike, he pissed off Mike, grabbed his inhaler, chucked
it across the road and sprinted until he beat Chris and finished the run.
That was the last time Chris ever saw Mike use his inhaler.
He didn't have room for weakness.
It was all or nothing this time around.
He was mentally ready for Buds.
It was like bring it.
I mean, and it sounds like his attitude going in.
Obviously, you know what to expect.
You don't want to make that mistake.
Although one of my roommates was a former Buds quitter and he was back again and I was
like, well, you know, he's probably going to, he's a little older, you know, kind of,
I was thinking, hey, you know, he's guys going to be good to go.
But sure enough, first night of Halloween, he quit.
So there's no, there's still no guarantee.
It's what you change in your brain.
Yeah.
And he was more prepared.
I remember, I think the last thing I said to him when he left was watch the sand because
that really destroyed me.
He wasn't, he just didn't take care of himself that first time around.
So he was definitely determined.
He was in good shape and mentally he was determined.
Yeah.
He had a friend named Gabe Lynch.
And this kid was like an Oregon farm boy.
So you had like the California kid.
Yeah.
They had some pretty good experiences that they talk about in the book that you guys
talk about in the book.
It says, Gabe and Michael were both part of boat crew three.
They were close in height, standing just around six foot one.
Gabe recalls how Mike was always one to brighten the mood of the guys during the often exhausting
days of being beaten by by the ocean surf while wet and sandy all day long.
Gabe was the slower runner between the two of them.
And he remembers Mike hanging out in the back with him as they would push through their
four mile time runs.
He would encourage Gabe, then sprint back up to the front and finish easily in the top
tier runners every time.
That was the kind of guy Mike was always looking out for his buddies.
He could see who needed a word of encouragement or or action of support and would deliver
it at just the right time.
Sometimes that's all it took when a guy was delirious running on a few hours of sleep
for a for days on end.
Even though Michael had not yet made it and become part of the seal brotherhood, brotherhood
itself was something he already understood in the depths of his core.
He was not going to let his friends down.
And he was always that way.
When he was a little kid, when we were living in that other neighborhood, it was pretty
poor.
I wasn't uncommon for him to take a Christmas gifts and give them away to his friends.
I'd see his friends playing with the gifts.
If you were his friend and if you speak to his friends, they will say that he truly was
a true friend and he was always on their side.
And that's just the way it was.
So the brotherhood was perfect for Michael.
Perfect place.
Yeah.
The quick scene from Hell Week.
Just because this just sounded like Mikey, man.
With paddles in hand, they begin to row in unison.
They had just taken the first few strokes in an evolution aptly named around the world,
which entails paddling their small boats from San Diego Bay north through the channel around
the tip of Coronado Island back to Buds Beach, a staggering 13 miles.
As they paddled, Gabe couldn't hold back any longer.
He started to doze off and without missing a beat, Michael shouted over to him from
his side of the boat, Hey man, I love you, bro, but you need to wake up.
That's all it took for you to jar Gabe back to consciousness and help him focus.
They end up securing Hell Week.
They lost about 75% of their people.
Obviously, Michael made it.
Got Ray.
It's just great.
Ray Bobviera, another guy from from Tasking to Bruiser.
It was the LPO of their Buds class.
They're getting ready to go out to San Clemente Island, which is the third phase of training.
It's the last phase of training.
Before going out there, Michael planned a little boat trip.
Again, I'm going to fast forward to this part just because it's funny to read about Michael
being an avid adventurer had planned a spearfishing trip and brought Gabe and another buddy of
theirs, Chris Kimbrell from their Buds class along for the weekend.
Gabe knew how to spearfish like Mike and they were naturals in the water, but for Chris,
a Midwest landlocked boy, this escapade was not his forte.
He was ready to go forward though and couldn't wait to see what the picturesque island had
to offer.
Chris was one of the first all suited up and couldn't wait to get going.
Before Gabe had even dropped the anchor, Chris jumped in the water to see what he could find.
Moments later, he burst through the surface proudly holding up his spear.
There on the end of his six foot Hawaiian sling flopped a beautiful orange fish.
Chris yelled and triumphed.
Michael immediately dove to the water tackling Chris as he pulled the spear from his hand.
That's a Garabalbi, the state fish of California.
It's super legal to hunt, dude.
Michael yelled at Chris.
There were other fishing boats all around.
Anyone that couldn't have seen the fish that Chris had on the end of his sling, Michael
quickly snatched the fish from the tip of the spear and dove to the bottom.
He found a large rock and wish.
So that's just like classic for Chris, Chris Cribbell, Chris Cribbell, Brell, who's, you
know, a landlock guy.
He didn't know.
He's like, look what I got.
Yeah, this Garabalbi are everywhere.
You see him going, oh, this is easy hunt.
That's classic.
Third phase, the last remaining block again, fast forwarded the last block before graduating
buds entailed instruction on seal weapons and tactics lasting around eight to 10 weeks
of students covered land navigation, land war for ambushes and raids, patrolling weapons,
handling and marksmanship and demolition.
Michael and his classmates were on San Clement Island, focusing specifically on raids, ambushes
and demolition.
San Clemente Island is a rocky volcanic island off the coast of California with hardly any
trees, lots of cactus, no natural fresh water, full of caves and caverns formed by gas bubbles
in the lava when the island was molten mass as the men focused specifically on ambushes
and raids, Ray Bobbierra, who continued as Michael's squad LPO through third phase recalls
how Michael would find a way to make light throughout the arduous and nonstopped evolutions
bringing humor to any situation, brightening anyone's mood.
And that's something that everybody, everybody says that about Mike.
No matter what's going on, he's just going to be sitting there, putting everybody back
into a good mood.
Yeah, he thought it was actually important, especially if people are getting stressed
out, like in Buds, he can see it on their faces and he thought, you know, he's seeing
these guys are going on tilt, you know, and, you know, our family does that, you know,
they'll equip this and that, you know, and he's always done that when things get real
serious and it kind of brings people down.
So it says third phase was coming to close just a few weeks later.
And as the men prepared to graduate, they were discussing what gift to give the command
in their memory.
They all want to leave something in their name from Buds class 250 that was immovable
and unique.
They decided to give basic training command an enormous boulder with their names engraved
upon it.
Now the class had to figure out how to track down a boulder and grave it and have it delivered
to the command.
Today's wife Maria was back home in San Diego and took care of the logistics.
What began as an idea quickly escalated into a four ton boulder that would have to be delivered
by a crane who would end up costing $7,000 in change.
Each guy was given the option to back out after the final pricing was determined and
not one guy did.
They were all in this together.
What the final gift became was something none of the Bud students would forget and their
memory forever lives on etched into the boulder that was engraved with the following words,
the actions of the few dictate the fate of many by Alexander the Great and it also says
the secret to Buds is underneath this rock.
So Buds classes give gifts to Buds and depending on the class and what they do some of the
gifts are pretty awesome some of them are pretty lame.
I think my class gave a pretty lame.
We gave a like a little speaking podium.
That's beautiful.
Yeah, the story behind it was one of the instructors was up at the podium talking to us and as
he was talking to us, he got mad and he smashed his hands down on the podium and the thing
like exploded and like broke apart and all these pieces and he started yelling and we
all go hit the surf and so we like had this special one made and the funny part about
that story is years later I saw that guy the guy that had smashed his podium and it exploded
like he was the incredible Hulk and I said he was a master chief by this time and I go
hey master chief he's like hmm and I go when because he was a hard dude I go when my class
was going through and you were the dive phase chief I said you smashed your hands on this
podium and it like exploded.
I said was that like a was that like a set was like a trick thing and he looks at me
and he goes negative it was oak reinforced and I was like okay so people give these various
different gifts and people give some some stuff's really cool probably the most famous
one is the the creature from the black lagoon it's a life-size statue of the creature the
black lagoon and it says so you want to be a frog man little sign hung on it but this
was an awesome gift it's this massive freaking rock.
It's going to be there for a while it's not going anywhere and so that's what they gave
I didn't see that until a race showed it to me we were invited to watch hell week with
the seals we watch it from on top of a roof on one of the buildings and then I feel so
sorry for those guys it was like for the poor guys people should just see that no and these
guys are doing it because they want to do it this is amazing what they go through but
after after that then he showed me the rock I knew it was there I never really you know
I just yeah there's a rock you know and then it went over and showed me and it was nice
and I could see where they were they were rubbing on the names and obviously they were rubbing
a lot on Michael so it was kind of nice.
It's awesome and it's in a really prominent spot it's like as you as you leave the compound
to go to the beach or come back you go right by the rock.
Michael graduated buds on September 2, 2004 back on Coronado Island California the graduation
day was memorable for all the men stood proudly in their clean crisp dress uniforms and each
weighted in anticipation for their name to be called across the compound a giant crane
labored with a four-ton boulder carefully placed in a large rock in the much deliberately
position where its weight could not would not crush the buried utilities below it.
Michael's parents George and Sally as well as three siblings Jim, Sarah and Joe were
in attendance to celebrate the achievement.
George recalls the smile on Michael's face as he walked up to embrace him following the
ceremony he had this look on his eyes that seemed to say to me dad I hope you didn't
doubt me I told you I was going to do this and I did it I told you so I loved seeing
him like that it gave me so much joy I never wanted him to join the seals but I was so
proud to be proved wrong by my son.
I love it when my kids prove me wrong because it's kind of a challenge I was I don't think
you can really do that I don't I don't I don't know if you could do that and I love
it when they come to me and say I did it and you don't know nothing and I mean they I'm
sure they catch on but to see my kids stick to something all of them and then they accomplish
it it's just you know you're you feel great.
How did you feel when he got through hell week the second time you must have been like
okay thank god.
It was funny I I kind of though his attitude I really would have been surprised if he didn't
because he had these friends too and once he makes these friendships he's going to be
with them and push them through so I just I really I would have been more surprised
if he didn't make it.
Yeah that's the wild thing I mean you start out with a couple hundred kids in your class
they're quitting so fast that they're just there you don't even know what's happening
yeah and and so you got to be a little bit careful because if you don't if you get to
know someone kind of while you're there and all of a sudden they quit yeah that all of
a sudden you go I'm alone so for him to have some good friends rolling in there is definitely
nice and yeah.
Got another guy here Michael and Z went through all of Bud's together they grab they graduated
from Bud's basic airborne seal qualification training now assigned to seal team three Z
to Echo platoon and Mike to Delta platoon the weeks were busy training and the weekends
were spent riding their bikes and that's motorcycles by the way chasing girls hanging out with
the guys after a day of riding they'd often come back to connect and unwind at bar Dynamite
a small bar in Mission Bay where they'd grab drinks with friends including Gabe and other
freshly minted and another freshly minted seal Tommy D. Mike was Mike was living life
to the fullest he was renting this house in Mission Bay while the new guys like myself
lived in one small bedroom small one bedroom apartment said Z laughing a motorcycle and
a stellar pal pad were not the only things Michael set his sights on he was eyeing his
next car and he knew exactly what he wanted just received a contract bonus that he used
to buy a silver 2004 Corvette Z zero six Michael could never be a financial advisor this is
like the classic thing I tell guys not to do when they get their bonus I should go hey
listen don't go buy a Corvette don't go buy a Ford 350 super duty Harley Davidson don't
don't do that it's hard to talk about I know I know especially with the junkers that like
that so he's got that Mike was living the dream in Southern California but he also understood
his team was on short fuse to surge into combat areas in the Middle East he knew the coming
months would include a fire hose of information intense training as platoon is going to war
and how fast he learned and integrated into platoon and his role could mean all the difference
yeah he took that real serious when he was home he was studying he definitely got to
the point where I do not want to make a mistake I mean it was like he really wanted to make
sure that he was on it yeah and and it was so long ago for me like when you're a new
guy there is so much it's just stuff to know and you don't want to make a mistake everyone's
watching you and you just want to do good and you're going to be counted on you know
these guys are going to be counting on you so and we also had a condensed work up because
at the time the war was hot and heavy this is now 2005 going into 2006 the used to be
18 months to train and get ready to go on deployment well for us was six months like
12 months boom and you're out the door so they it was everything was compressed and
there was a lot of stuff being being forced down the throats of everybody and yeah you
there's a there's a story in here about the Roger that which which so I'm I'm talking
to new guys and it was a particular block of training where it's close quarters combat
the instructors are it's live fire and close quarters which means you're shooting right
next to guys right you know you're two feet from someone you're shooting of 12 inches
off their muzzle it is tight quarters it's super dangerous and so you've got to be heads
up and the instructors have to be really hard to make sure that you don't mess anything
up and so I took the new guys and said listen when you're going through this block of training
those instructors tell you something your your response is Roger that I don't want to
hear like well I was thinking this or I could do what I didn't see no does you know say
any that the instructors talk to you say Roger that and so we're going through this training
and as we're going through this training you know I'm friends with all the instructors
are like all we're all friends but the new guys don't really know him that well but finally
one of the instructors is a good as a master chief he comes up he goes he goes hey John
Haco what's up with this Montsour guy and I was kind of I didn't really know something
was wrong and I go what do you mean Mike he's you know he's good to go he's like what's
up with his attitude and I go what do you mean what's wrong with his attitude and he
goes every time I tell him something one of the instructors tell him so all he does look
out up at us and say Roger that that's all he has and I go hey bro I told him that's
all he's supposed to say and he's just following that to a T that's what he's doing and when
he would say that the guys that he's with are like kind of smirking like no one knew
if he was a smart ass or he's just following your orders that's a I'll tell you so here's
another similar story we're you were in the Humvees and this we're going through the block
of training with Humvees and the the gunners call out you know like clear right like you
come up to an intersection and the gunners which is Mikey call out clear right or clear
left and you know Mikey's up there and I'm I'm the I'm the vehicle commander so I'm sitting
in the passenger seat and he's up there and like we get to our first time doing it and
we come up to an intersection and he's like clear right I could barely hear him you know
and I look down at him or I look up and I kind of hit him on the leg I was like hey man
you got a sound off and he's like he goes Roger that next intersection we pull up to
it and he's like clear right super over a compensating and I thought to myself hold on a second
yeah is he being a wise ass or and then we pulled the next intersection clear right and
in here's a thing he wasn't being a wise ass I told him to freaking sound off if you want
it you will get it I got it but that's but that was a you know that attitude that Roger
that attitude man that's um that that was it you know that was he was gonna he was gonna
get it done one of the first blocks of training work up was land war for out at Nile in California
by the Salton Sea with a hundred and seven degree summer average it's a scorching place
to train and sure enough we were out there in the summertime this combined with a schedule
rocky mounted terrain scarred with washes makes the literal and figurative crucible of the
work up here's where the platoon will work on the tactics techniques and procedures of
fighting in open terrain as well as demolitions rockets and mortars and all the different
small arms weapons systems of the sea arsenal a platoon is normally made up of 16 to 20
operators each having a specific role to include snipers preachers communicators and automatic
weapons gunners to name a few although specialized within the platoon each man is still responsible
to be proficient at the other jobs Michael and the other new guys could not wait to jump
right in and get started Michael caught on very quickly especially with his automatic
weapon the mark 48 each of the new guys were being watched closely by the older men in
the platoon his LPO Doug Wallace remembers how that even though Michael is quickly picking
up on the tactics and performing all tasks efficiently and without complaint it was always
with humility and a willingness to learn more misery loves company and Nile and is a block
where there's many reasons to complain of our intense conditions Mike never did once
not one time it showed great character and understanding on his part especially for a
new guy Doug said and then there's another section here so it's there's like a little
gang mentality going on and part of it is like you're going to fight each other sometimes
now so they're having some boxing matches and I'm using that term very loosely.
This is not professionals but they'll set up like a tournament and generally or oftentimes
is just the new guys have to fight each other.
So this is going down and it says here came down to Mike the last standing new guy from
Delta since so in tasking approvers is to two platoons Charlie and Delta it came down to
the last standing new guy in Delta which was Mike versus Kevin Lace the final remaining
new guy in Charlie. Kevin was huge 225 pound tower of muscle loomed over most team guys
at a height of six foot three Mike was much smaller and more slender but he wouldn't give
up he was a lean scrappy dude recalled Kevin I remember hitting him as hard as I could
but there was no shaking him we had no boxing form we were street fighting at that point
with boxing gloves on I looked at him and it seemed as if his eyes were crossed and I
continued to hit him over and over again but he wouldn't stop he returned below after
blow right back we got so into it that I'm sure we were both seeing red but each of
us refused to back down both platoons cheered and taunted as each man hit the other over
and over again clad in only their boots and camo pants the two men continued to brawl
neither could defeat the other and in the end the older men called it a tie Kevin had
hugged Mike once they stopped and cooled down your tough son of a bitch Mike Kevin said
laughing yeah and Kevin Lace is just a like a giant dude thick and there's Mikey and
Mikey he got jacked later but at this point just coming out of Buds he was pretty lean
still yeah even though yeah he was yeah there wasn't he wasn't a real big guy when he just
got out he was definitely lean though yeah endurance wise a guy could go for a long time
but mentally I'm not surprised that he hung in there because he went through those mental
things as a kid people messing with him and stuff mentally he was just really very strong
yeah so we that's what we're doing it we're going through this work up we do land warfare
we do mobility we do close quarters combat we do urban warfare at Fort Knox we used
to do it Fort Knox we do diving we do jumping we do a bunch of stuff back in San Diego and
and we're working hard that's what we're doing and we actually at the beginning of our training
cycle we as task unit bruiser didn't know where we were deploying to know because there
was three task units one of them had already been designated to go to Iraq because they
went to the Pacific the last time so it was between my task unit and another task unit
to see who is going to go to Iraq of course everybody wants to go to Iraq everybody wants
to go fight the other one the other tunes going to do a different mission but it's not
fighting it was the Philippines I think it was as I said to my kind says well maybe you
get lucky and go the Philippines he looked at me like you poor pathetic old man no yeah
exactly so no one wants to go to the Philippines no one wants to go to the southeast Asia everyone
wants to go to Iraq and it's a basically the commanding officer is going to pick and we
pushed hard and we were supposed to go to Baghdad our original deployment was to go
to Baghdad and there was a mission in Baghdad that was working directly with this group
called the Iraqi counterterrorism force the ICTF Iraqi counter these are local I mean
Iraqi guys and they had been really well trained they're probably the best well the best trained
of all Iraqi troops they had really nice gear they had uniforms like they had everything
no and there was a there was a group of seals with them and there's a group of army army
special forces guys all working with these Iraqis and I actually went on a pre deployment
site survey we call it I went before we went on deployment to go and meet up with those
guys see what the mission was like get a heads up on everything because that's where we're
going going to Baghdad so I come back from that we're prepared we know what our mission
is and where everyone goes on pre deployment leave so everyone goes you know like hey well
okay we're going on deployment soon and that's when we got the whole deployment changed around
and my commanding officer is calls me in he's like hey you're not you guys aren't going
to Baghdad anymore you guys are going to go to Ramadi and well Ramadi we knew Ramadi
was the worst place in Iraq and everybody wanted to go there just like everyone wanted
to go to Iraq well everyone wanted to go to Ramadi I mean the commanding officer said
it to me like I was going to be sad now the the the mission in Baghdad was a cool mission
to and it was kind of all set up and running so it was kind of is like ready made like
you know what you're going to be doing Ramadi was kind of the Wild West still but when he
he said it to me he was making it seem like he needed to convince me that hey this is
what this is what's going to happen you know are you okay with that and I was like I realized
the kind of the tone of his voice I was kind of like well you know so I'm going to need
some more people I need some more gear but he was great and and then we reshuffled and
we reshuffled and got ready to go and I don't even I don't think I even I think I don't
even think we notified the guys because everyone was on leave and you couldn't tell them like
on an in a on a non-secure net net like hey we're going to Ramadi now like you it's classified
so is the name everyone came back we had another week or whatever it's like hey everyone we're
not going to back down anymore we're going to Ramadi and the guys were ecstatic they're
ecstatic and this some of the stuff you cover in the book Sarin Sally come down to help
Mikey pack up all this stuff he takes he takes his mom for a little ride in the Corvette
got read about that one he did it on the motorcycle too but she was used to the bike
with me when I used to take her on my bike so he was kind of disappointed because she
she did get scared down she was nice right Mikey have a nice day and be careful he goes
up to Garden Grove spent the last couple days up there and I'm going to read this the time
had come George and Michael awoke early in the morning and drove back down the I5 South
the San Diego the trip seemed to pass much faster than either would have liked once they
arrived in Coronado George gave his son a big final hug as he said goodbye with a kiss
on the cheek George felt the knot deep down in his stomach but he refused to acknowledge
it the idea that this could be the last time he saw his son was not something he wanted
to think about as George drove home he recalled an evening with his son from two weeks prior
he lit up a Fuente cigar for Michael and himself on their front porch they sat together in
silence amid the cool air under the dark sky while smoke slowly drifted in the light breeze
George's voice broke the silence to address what they were both thinking Mikey what if
something happens to you it's not exactly a walk in the park over in Ramadi right now
please don't be a hero just do your job dad no matter what happens I have no regrets this
reassurance from Michael helped but George still did not want Mike to go as a marine
vet George saw firsthand what Ward did to all those involved and he despised it he knew
it was unforgiving and brutal and how it could degrade and break the spirit he also knew
that Mike had been trained well by men who understood what he could be facing this brought
some consolation to George as they finished their cigars together that night George and
Mike George looked at Mike and the man he had become he was so proud of him from a determined
little boy who fought against the injustice of bullies and his own physical weakness of
asthma he persevered and overcame failure adversity and blocks of training he despised
such as free fall parachuting and communication school all with focused conviction and often
a mischievous smile on his face he he definitely surprised me at that at that age his maturity
and he knew who he was talk to kids at his age in their early twenties and stuff like
that and they're still lost he had his morals he had his beliefs he's pretty rock solid
and if there were things that he didn't like I remember like jumping out of the planes
I used to do that too and we talked to me about it and then he says I don't like this
I don't like it at all and he says when you came back he planned on just doing that because
anything that he was afraid of he would just keep doing it and doing it till he owned
it and that's just the way it was and he didn't like communication school no it was hard and
he was studying all the time I said God I can't speed this up yeah going to the book
Mike loaded up his gear and followed his teammates to the waiting C-17 aircraft to C-17 multi-purpose
aircraft can be configured for transport of troops cargo or a combination of both though
this last configuration is often how special operations unit traveled through the small
footprint and nature of their mission sets to you bruiser was no exception and as soon
as the aircraft was in altitude Michael and his friends broke out their nylon hammocks
and ground pads and settled in for the long flight tasking a bruiser landed out to catam
airport in Iraq where they began to prepare for a short flight west to Ramadi after the
C-17 was unloaded each operated opened his war box and donned his combat equipment Michael
had done this hundreds of times throughout workup and his prior training trips this time
was different this was not training his enemy was now hardened war fighters whose will and
resolve would be used to exploit weakness in order to win the war
says here in the spring of 2006 the battle of Ramadi was just beginning and it was already
intense the city was arguably the epicenter was inarguably the epicenter of the insurgency
in Iraq and known throughout the area as the most dangerous city in the world wrote Leif
Bab and the officer in command of Charlie Patu task unit bruiser the al-Qaeda leader
in Iraq Abu Musab Zarkawi declared during that time that Ramadi would be the capital
of his envisioned Islamic caliphate in Iraq insurgents controlled over two thirds of the
city itself and certain areas were nearly impenetrable to United States and Iraqi security forces
US Marines and Army soldiers that were currently over there battled continually with large groups
of well armed and well organized enemy fighters so far 93 US service members had been killed
in action and hundreds more were wounded in nearly 15 months of fighting you remember
Michael Fuente I think it was yeah was telling me that the media would not even cover that
he was the only guy says they were just blowing those guys away and nobody would go the media
so my previous deployment was in Baghdad there was like hotels with CNN and you know all
the news set up Ramadi there wasn't anybody no there wasn't anybody and you know I just
I just had a guy on the podcast named David Belavia he's a Medal of Honor recipient from
Fallujah he was in the second battle Fallujah when the Marines pushed through yeah and he
he's one of the few people that did go to Ramadi as a report as a journalist and we're
sitting here you know his story you know about the second battle of Fallujah yeah it was a
brutal fighting and David Belavia sits here and says oh Ramadi was way worse which I look
I'm not trying to compare the two no but they were both yeah but they were both that story
yeah the stories yeah I definitely felt so bad for those Marines you know and then Ramadi
like yeah Michael would tell me that he told the family that he was just teaching the guys
how to march yeah yeah but we could see the news every once in a while you know or when
the pictures came out on the internet you know for when he had those pictures out he's
not to take pictures and we saw him on the internet and it's like that doesn't look like
you're training people how to march yeah I don't see anybody marching not other than
some guys then they're not marching they're running yeah I mean so it was basically on
as soon as we got there you know the what one of the indicators of that was the couple
days after so I'd I'd already been there for a little while with a few of the guys just
we were we got there before the rest of the task unit but as soon as the whole task unit
was there within a day I think it was like the night they got there we had like a little
attack on our base and we end up the whole freaking task units on the roof of our building
lighten up and engaging you know the enemy fighters out there and it was like okay that's
what it is that's how it's going to be almost within a couple days of being there I was
going to meet the brigade commander a guy named Colonel gronsky and I was literally walking
in to meet him and as I'm walking in to meet him we had already put out a sniper overwatch
position and Tony a fratty the Charlie platoon chief had shot and killed an IED in Placer
in an area where the Marines had just hit a big ID and lost a bunch of guys and as soon
as that happened Colonel gronsky looked at me I mean so that's how I meet him he says
I think your guys just killed a an ID in Placer where I just lost Marines hey Roger that sir
he says we need you out in eastern Ramadi place called the Malab out correct Corregador
and I said Roger that you know and that's what we did as soon as soon as I get back
we plan all right they need us in eastern Ramadi and I took a probably two thirds of
the task unit over to Camp Corregador where the first the 506 is again as soon as we get
look we've been on the ground for like a couple days now maybe it's been like six days and
we're over there we get to Camp Corregador the snipers are like hey we can we get in
the towers because there's towers around Camp Corregador I'm like absolutely tell the army
guys were you you good with us putting snipers Colonel Colonel Clarks like absolutely they
start killing guys almost immediately enemy rocket teams mortar teams IED in places and
at the same time where we're out at Camp Corregador for a couple days the living conditions are
terrible in the life it was like dirt floors there's mosquitoes you know they're getting
murdered indirect fire on a regular basis just just it was just freaking horrible no showers just it was horrible
and so we do this initial mission out there and we come back to the bigger base and the
army's like hey thank you for coming can can we can you keep working with us as a matter
of fact their company commander these guys went out on patrol and this company commander
with a couple with an army company commander he comes back after his first patrol with my
guys and I walk with him to the battalion commander but then he tells the tank commander
I don't want to do another patrol without seals with me I want seals on every patrol
so Colonel Clarks looking at me like hey well can you get some guys out here I said let me
sort it out so now I'm talking to Seth and you know Seth's like hey I want to pick the
guys to go back out there because I however it all shook out Seth had the had was the
opportune guy or the he had the the laif had already been assigned a guy this guy had been
already been assigned Iraqi troops to work with another guy been assigned Iraqi troops
with to work with I think Seth's the Iraqi troops Seth was supposed to work with originally
quit like they didn't show up and so Seth was the guy that had the capacity so I said
are you're gonna go out to camp Corregidor and he says I just want to pick the guys I
want to take and I said hey man it sucks out there I said how about we do this let's put
a volunteer list up and if anybody wants to go back out there then then you can get volunteers
that way you're not forcing it down their throats Seth's like alright so bring the task unit
together and I'm like alright guys you you you all just came back from camp Corregidor
we're gonna send an element out there for deployment all I can tell you is it's gonna
suck the living conditions are awful the the the level of violence is extremely high as
you all saw and if you want to go back there then put your name on this list on the white
board and I walked out of the room and I came back 15 minutes later and everybody's name
was on the list including Michaels which meant that Seth got what he wanted which was he just
got to pick his guys yeah and Mikey was the was was for the guys there's no question he
was going with Seth yeah that that would that would have surprised me if he didn't yeah
no so there was a you know Seth and Tommy D and Mikey were real tight so I knew that
those three were gonna stick together so he didn't care Seth was a little shocked at Mikey
was decorating I remember when he got back he was telling me about his his pad oh yeah
well that's the good news is the good news is once they got over there and settled in
and we'll get to that part but they eventually squared away which seals are really good it
seals good it we got some rough living we'll fix it up but that but so they end up taking
the small element guys out there to go to camp Corregidor move in there working with
the first the 506 the band of brothers which was awesome and they get settled into this
operational tempo and settled into really what it is that they're going to be doing
there and I'll just example of this they get settled into what they're doing there get
settled into the combat operations and real quickly we go to the book here the army captain
sat peacefully in silence in one of the only places set apart from the chaos and violence
that was now Romadi Iraq he was a little old for the rank of captain but that was not uncommon
for a person with his specific duties in the military he had spent years in formation and
training and was now here in the thick of battle in Romadi the quiet was broken by a
firm knock at the door the man rose from his seat and moved to receive it he opened the
door to find a tall brown eyed dark-haired young man patiently waiting are you a Catholic
priest I am replied Father Halliday nice to meet you I am a Catholic and my name is Michael
Montsour I'd like to go to confession Father Halliday grabbed his stole and motion Michael
to follow him Father Halliday was 40 years old at the time of his deployment to Romadi
and was an army chaplain with the first the 506 his main mission was to assist the soldiers
of Camp Corregor to worship according to their own religion and preference but was an ordained
Catholic priest and was happy to oblige Michael's request for confession they sat down in the
makeshift chapel Michael had just arrived in Romadi and Father Halliday understood well
the situation the men were facing on a daily basis he thought it showed significant religious
formation and conviction for Michael to seek him out after only recently arriving in Romadi
yeah Michael he took his face serious and he also I mean he knew he was in a place where
he could lose his life and he wanted to be prepared everywhere spiritually physically
mentally yeah and the I mean the fighting was it was sustained urban combat and I mean
guys were getting wounded or killed just about every day and and the first the 506 I mean
Charlie company the first the 506 who might he spent a lot of time working with they had
had like a third of their company casualties in four or five months so they 50 guys they
were down not all of them were killed but it was it was it was war now when we were
in Fort Campbell and their commander brought in some of the guys that worked with Michael
and their stories you know and it's like you start realizing how many people they did lose
and just how tough it was and I remember Sally breaking down hearing some of those stories
and thinking about Michael so it was people just don't get it how tough it was over there
some of what they were experiencing here they were in the middle of intense
firefights on almost daily basis the operating tempo they were facing required hyper focus and
the guys completely undeterred stepped up and went to work we asked a lot of our guys especially
with the numbers of missions we were conducting while facing extreme heat dehydration and exhaustion
it didn't faze them they all stepped up and performed Mike Sarelli said there were army
and marine units also stationed in Ramadi that the seals were providing assistance to and one
of the large army battalions being the first the 506 this was the descendant from the band of brothers
from world war two the battalion was huge and led by lieutenant colonel Ron Clark his men were
professional talented and worked incredibly well with the seals Michael's troop commander
lieutenant commander jockel will he could instructed his men to use army to use the army's
uniform a tricolor gray digital pattern called army combat uniform or acu's it was very different
from the tricolor desert naval special warfare uniform the men wore it and even shaved their
heads to match their army brethren this was not only this not only increased the cohesion of the
two units but also had a very practical purpose by blending in with the army unit the seals did
not stand out as special forces the enemy had begun to target soldiers that looked or dressed
differently than the average so that's why when people see pictures of that element they're wearing
they're wearing army uniforms um that's what it is they wanted to blend in and wanted to
not stand out and wanted to form a relationship with the army you know there's just just you know
sometimes in special operations you know you can wear all this Gucci gear and it's like you're
trying to set yourself apart and we didn't want to do that how often does that happen where I see
you guys working with the Marines but working with the army is that something that's uh unusual or
not unusual I would say it's not it's not unusual to this to this amount on this this much of
relationship working all the time yeah it's is a little less common uh but I mean that whole
deployment was we didn't do any missions well we did barely any missions where we weren't with
an army or Marine Corps unit or at least adjacent to them at I mean we were definitely adjacent to
um but yeah the ACU thing that was because that was because those guys were living with them
and we just figured let's just win in Rome yeah
starting to get into this little the order of battle for the SEALs would largely consist of
word coming from the army 48 hours ahead of time informing them on what area of Ramadi they would
be patrolling the SEALs would then plan and provide sniper overwatch during the army patrol
even amid their overloaded operating schedule the men of Delta Platoon gathered supplies to build a
home away from home in the tattered building where they would be spending the deployment they
nicknamed it full metal jacket so the building that they lived in called full metal jacket if you
see the movie full metal jacket that's what this building looked like a bunch of army guys living
in there too a plywood floor was laid the walls were reinforced with sandbags foam was sprayed
between the inner and outer layers for insulation they framed and built out rooms for each man and
installed a small AC unit to keep cool the air in certain parts of the building the men needed to
watch their step in order to expose to avoid exposed rebar the heat was miserable in May
reaching upwards of 115 degrees and fixing up and finishing full metal jacket was a welcome
reprieve the men of Delta Platoon had this once barely standing building a home away from home
by normal standards nothing to write home about but nonetheless a haven in the midst of the heat
yeah and that's where Mikey built Mikey's little yes he had it and just to you know we were talking
about um this was probably a month in and I had the Marine or sorry the Army Special Operations
Commander came to visit Task Unit Bruiser and I was briefing him on what was going on and I said my
element in Karegador has been out their last 23 missions they've been engaged by the enemy 23
straight missions in a row and as I'm saying that almost as if on cue one of the guys from my tactical
operation center comes in and says excuse me sir and I'm like yes and he says just to let you know
the guys in Karegador are in contact with the enemy right now and I looked at the the Sieges
Sodev commander and I said well sir make that 24 that's to sort of go out 24 operations in a row
and be an enemy contact it's what you were talking about earlier and I remember actually
the 25th operation I think it was the 25th operation they didn't have enemy contact
because they did something like really small and they broke their streak but it was
it was on and you got and again you interviewed a bunch of people for this
the deafening noise the machine gun fire suddenly erupted from an enemy insurgent position to the
right Michael dropped into his field of fire identifying the enemy position immediately sent
back a long burst with his mark 48 contact right multiple seals yelled as they sent round after
round toward the enemy Mike sprinted to the closest position to cover which was a courtyard
wall of a nearby house and picked up fire the other seals and the Iraqi army scouts moved into
courtyard and began returning fire as well changing yelled Mike as he stripped out an empty ammo box
and loaded a full one just as he closed the feed tray cover five enemy fighters moved to flank
Michael and his team they are flanking to the west Mike yelled as he fired at the maneuvering
insurgents he caught them halfway through their movement and had them pinned behind a small vehicle
hold them there Mike JP yelled Mike could overhear the marine angler the marine air naval gunfire
liaison company Anglico guys on the radio setting up for a strike on the enemy fighters he had pinned
down cast in 30 seconds called out the controller letting the guys know the jets were 30 seconds
out from dropping from Michael to seem like an eternity he had the best vantage point to keep
the enemy where they were as the other seals and scouts were still engaging the original enemy
position he conserved his ammo knowing a reload may give the insurgents just enough time to maneuver
away from their current position which could cause the close air support strike to have to abort
and start over he continued to send five to eight round bursts into the vehicle one away 10 seconds
to impact called out the controller the dust was heavy but Michael could still see to know that
none of the five enemy had left the position suddenly a flash then the car ripped apart and
disappeared in a cloud of black and gray smoke good hit stand by for BDA stated the controller over
the radio the dust cleared where the sedan used to be was a crater with indistinguishable metal
debris and other scattered and other materials scattered in the area Michael could make out
three of the five enemy now lying in peculiar positions near the blast site good hits five by
e k i a Michael heard the controller say the original enemy position went quiet immediately
after the strike the seals marines and scouts maneuvered to assess and secure the building
the scouts entered and cleared it only to find that the enemy had left the area all right guys
there's nothing left here let's charlie mike said chief fortin and the seals and scouts moved
to reestablish their security position for the main element element
so that's what they were doing yeah i would get uh phone messages and where uh Michael would call
would miss the message just kicking back with with my bros uh send cigars critical information
sends cigars exactly uh there's there's there's really good examples of this throughout the book
another one immediately enemy fire began to hit the wall around the rooftop Michael reposition
toward the contact and fire the enemy were using the cover of surrounding houses effectively and
continued to harass the security position it was clear this was not like other attacks it was well
coordinated the enemy was careful not to engage from the same spot for too long and continued to
maneuver and flank the rounds from mikes 48 began to eat chunks out of the corners and ledges that
the enemy were using his cover the short rooftop wall was beginning to degrade as well however
and bullets were penetrating the plaster in some areas the men stayed low and continued to engage
Michael was glad he had prepped his extra ammo ahead of time it looked as though he would be
needing it soon Michael and the other seals on the rooftop were not the only ones taking fire
the iraqi army scouts were trying to exit the house to maneuver on the insurgents but were
pinned inside every time one of the scouts tried to exit the house a hail of bullets hit the area
around the exit on the rooftop the situation was not improving and it looked like ammunition might
soon become a problem not for Michael he continued to engage multiple enemy positions stopping only
to reload and reposition Mikey how's your ammo yell JP I'm good to go damn bro carrying all that
extra weight might save all our lives JP smiled but he was really dead serious Michael's 48 continued
to eat away at enemy positions an indistinct yell came from the right Michael turned to see one of
the enemy insurgents trying to cross the street towards the seals positions he sent a burst and
the enemy fighter fell against the hop pavement motionless with this the momentum changed and
Michael moved from position to position engaging the enemy on three sides he was the only AW gunner
on the roof and although the other seals were holding their own as well the 556 millimeter
m4 doesn't have quite the same effect as a 762 millimeter belt fed machine gun the enemy was
losing and it began to show the volume of fire had drastically decreased and was much more sporadic
until only one enemy position was still active the seals and scouts concentrated fire on the spot
the area went quiet and the big men waited for another attack but it never came in all Michael
had fired more than 600 rounds of ammunition and was likely the reason that the security position
was not overrun seven enemy lay dead without one seal or scout injured
a lot of rounds yeah I don't know I think I've told you this story before but I was so I went
over to Kregor to check in on everybody and as soon as I get there was like hey go watch my
go watch Mikey's video so I'm like cool so I go over I'm like you know go to Mikey's palace
which is his little room you know he's got I don't know yet some kind of like red curtain
right orange yeah those are orange I don't know what he probably took them from a house out in
town his brother sent him to him oh there you go he goes we're saying so I think this will fit
but yeah so I go in there and and I'm like Mikey let me see your video and you know he gets out
and he's just showing it to me on his he had a camera a video camera and but you know this is
when the video cameras had just started to have their own little screens and their own little
speakers so I'm watching it and this is the famous video at least it's famous in our task unit where
Mikey's like filming there's freaking everyone shooting there's bullets flying everywhere
and then Mikey turns the video camera back at himself and he says it's the moolab which was
oh you haven't seen that oh man we got to get that to you yeah so Mikey's filming this firefight
and as he's filming you know it's a pretty good firefight and then he turns the camera back at
himself and he's got a big smile on his face and he goes it's the moolab or welcome to the
moolab or something like that which the the district was called the moolab district but he
says it's the moolab and so I'm watching it you know I'm I'm like mr. serious and so I'm but I'm
trying to hold back but I'm smiling and then he gets done and he's looking at me and I look at him
I go I go bro what are you doing filming when there's a freaking gunfight going on and he looks at me
and he goes I was Winchester sir which means he was out of ammo so he'd already dumped like a he
dumped a thousand rounds or probably 800 to a thousand rounds of ammunition didn't have any ammo
left and says like well I might as well make some videos but yeah I mean it's when I got home I remember
I was talking to some of the Vietnam SEALs and I went and talked to one Vietnam SEAL that was a
machine gunner Vietnam and you know I said I said you know how many like how many engagements did
you get in and he said oh you know we did whatever it was he said you know we did 82 operations and
we got seven gunfights I said how many times did you use all your ammunition he's never
and here was I mean there was all machine gunners would run out of ammo on a not a fairly regular
but definitely ran out of ammo because that's the that was the scenario that was the situation on the
ground and that's why he would take less water he always took just what he hoped he could you know
need and he would substitute the water for ammo yeah and he'd be carrying radio sometimes too
yeah which is carrying a load
yes it's a humor oh yeah it's the mood love I can't believe you haven't seen that video
oh it's freaking classic uh meanwhile well that's going on back to the book hey dad it's Mike
Michael spoke happily into a satellite phone he'd just returned from an op-ed after showering and
changing in his gear he dialed home to check in Mikey how you doing I'm doing good dad we're still
training Iraqi forces I'm pretty bored here yeah what's new at home Michael's careful not to detail
the true nature of the work they conduct on a daily basis he didn't want his parents to worry he
preferred to keep the amount of danger they faced to himself as George and Michael discussed his gear
and weapons Sally walked over to George she was eager to hear Michael's voice she had barely spoken
to him since he left because every time he called she made sure her children and husband had ample
time with Michael on the phone first she was also busy finishing up a master's degree in counseling
marriage and family therapy so any amount of time she had to speak with Michael she treasured
Michael never discussed any of his combat operations with her she knew he wanted to protect her
from worrying but she also knew better she had walked past the hallway when her sons were on
their computer looking at photos of Michael patrolling through the streets and she instantly
knew he was facing grave enemy day in and day out she couldn't be there but she could pray and
that's what she did she prayed the rosary a collection of prayers based on the life of Christ
and honoring his blessed mother whom warfighters have credited assisting them in epic battles
throughout history Sally wasn't seeking anything grand with her prayers she simply requested
protection for her son as she prayed it every single day it was now Sally's turn to speak to
Michael and she held the phone tightly to her ear so she could hear her son clearly how are you
Mike I miss you did you receive the care packages we sent to you we really enjoyed making them for
you and your teammates they were great mom thank you even the package full of female toiletries
you and your friends threw in there yeah these she had these women volunteers and they did other
charity work and they sent stuff and so nobody knows how that got in there but Mike says you
guys had kind of a crazy look when they open that one up like are women coming yeah the
so my wife is at home she got three kids they're like how old were they they were like maybe seven
five and three or something like this they're maybe you know six four and two or something like
this so she doesn't have time to do all this stuff so finally I get you know everyone's getting a
care package all this nice stuff I'm not getting anything finally like two months into pulling
it I get a package and I still harassed my wife about this I like honey roasted peanuts right
and so she sent me a planters thing of honey roasted peanuts but it was open and tape shot
open it was half eaten with the kids got into it it was tape shot that's what I got I'm like thanks
darlin but I did never get women's toiletries yeah no one figured out where those came from but
they got a lot of women's magazines too from people because I would contact anybody that would
send things we sent stuff and people volunteers send stuff and I you know it was just crazy
guys would risk their lives go out and get those packages you know hey women toiletries
just what we need uh he says I'm gonna go head to bed now I want to say hello to you guys
Mike's voice began to drift off the day his operation had begun to hit him like a wall his
body was now just registering need for sleep of course take care of yourself we're all okay here
Michael stay focused so you can come home safe Sally said those words became her parting words
every time she spoke to him stay focused so you can come home safe we would lie in bed just kind
of looking at the ceiling and saw with say we all know that he's just not kicking back you know it's
kind of a charade here you know but we were pretty aware what was how bad Ramadi was but we knew he
didn't really want to get into it so we kept the conversations pretty light now when Mark got killed
did you guys did you guys become aware when Mark got killed went to the funeral and that's where
Sally met Matt Debbie Debbie but also I put you know I keep thinking Kay
uh oh oh from the book yeah Matt Cowie McCowie got it Cowie comes up to her in his crutches
and says Michael saved my life Michael saved my life and that's when Sal was thinking how could
you save your life if he's just marching people around and then he told her the story and that's
why it was like yeah we know a little bit better than that but and of course we had a conversation
I remind him we don't we don't really need heroes just do a good job and uh this is don't worry
if I remember him saying uh we talked about his death about Lee's death and everything and
those guys took it pretty hard and he and I said we feel gonna be careful and he goes don't worry
he says if I go here I will be the one that decides I still remember that especially when he he didn't
have to we could have gotten out of that he decided and just always sticks in my head that conversation
yeah I know that uh I mean my wife had no idea of what was going on um at all and but then no
because she didn't even give you a full can that's true that's true I'd say she has no clue but you
know even Cowie got Cowie got wounded but you know she just I think she just thought it was anomaly
and and like I said I mean she had um she had a you know she had three kids going on freaking young
kids and everything but uh I think everybody when Mark got killed it was like oh wake up yeah and and
yeah it's I was looking through my emails a while ago which is crazy to look through emails and I
have like all the emails I was reading emails that I sent my wife and you know it's like oh uh what is
it July 29th you know um then July 1st or so July 31st and then August 2nd that's the day Mark died
and there's you know my you know I sent an email August 3rd like hey hope everything's okay you know
something like this but still nothing um and I think that was everybody you know kind of like
what Mikey was doing is so you just don't want people to worry but then that was just uh no way
to hide that you know what we saw Cowie again uh we invited some of the sales for Thanksgiving
and uh we still didn't know the whole story and then the Thanksgiving he says uh so can I talk to you
and they went into another room and he says let me tell you what I saw and then he pulls up his shirt
and he has that huge tattoo because this is what I swear this is what I saw so it was like you know
yeah yeah so Cowie who is uh wasn't asking a bruiser and was just a freaking awesome guy
that's the the opening story is Mikey dragging him out of the out of the street and he ended up
getting a tattoo of of Mikey with these angels wings it's Cowie was telling the story the other
day and one thing I he was saying it was like he was about to say something like he or maybe he was
like hey I need and as soon as he was saying I need help like he felt Mikey's hand like grab his
gear and start pulling him he was like that's Johnny on the spot right there yeah yeah I'm
I'm not that I'm not real religious but things like this just hit me and sometimes like I don't
know I don't have explanations for some of these things that uh I think the older you get you start
to see more things there just uh can't really explain but
it was the 15th of August the the Iraqi army along with the U.S. Army would be conducting
clearance of another portion of the Malab district the houses were tightly packed and clearance would
likely be slow the seals came prepared and were all set with cardboard shade water and a ton of
extra ammunition the men didn't know it but they would soon have no need for the shade
as the call to prayer ended Michael scan the surrounding area with his periscope he glanced
over to see his teammates to the right each with their own as well he smiled and continued to scan
it it worked out so well for Michael that a bunch of guys had had them sent out this is Michael
ended up getting his like combat periscopes which ended up being awesome yeah I remember
Sarah I was uh was sending that out just looking at me like like really playing games over there
yeah imagine how nice it is when you don't have to poke your head up over a wall yeah
nothing to see here guys just the Iraqi army and dudes getting unloaded Michael called then the
loudspeakers crackled on that's weird thought Michael it seemed as though the prayers were going
to start again a voice came over the loudspeakers but it sounded different this time it was not the
usual singing it was speaking and the words were different what is that are they praying again that
doesn't sound like prayer chief Fortin said I know it's not the same Michael responded the interpreter
burst through the couple a door and onto the roof its directions they're being direct directed he
blurted what who asked chief Fortin the speakers the enemy fighters are being directed on where to
go the interpreter replied oh well shit oh well shit JP Doug Mike do you have a shot to take out
those speakers chief called chief Fortin but the snipers had already been trying to work a solution
no joy chief was the response Mikey I hope you brought a lot of ammo shits probably gonna get real
stupid real quick chief Fortin said always Mikey replied was that was that the 12 hour
yeah yeah that one what ends up happening comms chatter but most it was not pertinent to Michael
most of the information flow from different units leaders back to to the joint operation center
where the operation is being monitored Michael's concern was keeping the enemy pinned and if one
of them was brave enough to try and move out in the open dropping in in his tracks the clearance
was ongoing but the insurgents currently attacking the seal position were relentless and I fast
forwarded to this they're they just basically got like an all out assault this was not ideal but
also meant that they were not trying to advance towards the overwatch position had been hours
and neither side could get the upper hand Michael moved from position a position firing at multiple
enemy locations it looked as though this fight was not going to be over anytime soon and he
wasn't wrong the entire engagement lasted 12 hours I mean imagine people have never served
12 hours I mean it's the way these guys stay together and then the next day they go up and do
it again it's the people I just don't it's just it's just remarkable what these guys do yeah you know
a lot of times you know people talk about basic seal training they talk about buds oh buds was
hard and I look it is hard it's hard as hell and it's a nightmare for guys to try and get through
but what you just talked about and what I usually try and explain to people is oh you
saw an army guy get killed you were in a firefight yesterday you had rounds snapped by your head you
had like all these things happen I mean on some of these engagements uh their JP dragged a marine
out of the street I will I forget the number but the marine got shot another marine got shot
an Iraqi got shot a seal got shot through his backpack through his uh water bladder his camel
back on his so it's like in one little engagement five people got shot and what do you do the next
day you go out again yeah and then the next day you go out again so yeah the look buds is hard I get
it but this stuff right here and look it's not just seals the Marines are going out every day the
army's going out every day and everyone's taking those risks and that's why the bond was so tight
with the army and the Marine Corps in Ramadi because everyone was doing everything we could
to protect each other and that's why that bond was and is so strong yeah yeah I read some of uh
Michael's emails uh and I was his friends in the States crying that uh his girlfriend their
girlfriend doesn't love him anymore or her boyfriend laughed and they're having a tough time in
college and I'm and Mike writes back you know encouraging them and the whole deal and I'm
thinking really they're having a tough time yeah yeah it's uh it it definitely is and that's what
I love about this book is you start to realize the I mean this is what the daily life is like
captured it really really well and that's I think that's important for people to read these type of
books uh I can get a taste and these these stories as you said they're from uh the guys that were
there these stories are real and uh I think it would give uh the rest of the country just kind of a
fingernail sketch of what these guys go through and also if you have you know uh teenage
children they can see that guys like Michael they're just like them they they have problems when
they're kids and they deal with bullies and it's that determination and that strength that you build
up in your life that prepares you for the world yeah and uh you know the fact that the first time
Mikey went to Bud's he quit yeah and you know who else did Mark Lee Mark Lee the first time he went
to Bud's he quit and I always uh you know occasionally I'll talk to someone that's that had been to
Bud's and quit and I usually tell them if they seem like they're a good person I'll say if they
say they want to go back and I'll say hey you're at a Mikey Montsourne they say yeah I'm gonna go
Mikey Montsour quit the first time he went and now I'm gonna be able to tell him but when you get
defeated it's what you do it's what's the quote I gotta learn it's how you come back from the feet
come back from the feet so that's what I'm talking about so that's the man we're gonna add that in
there whatever it is it's the way you come back it's always wake up because we've all had losses
and for me when I have a bad loss uh it just burns them burns it's there forever you sometimes you
forget about those easy wins but you remember those losses and usually hopefully you'll walk away
with a lesson and uh Michael just when that happened I just didn't surprise me at all he was coming
back he will win yeah so pushing a little bit further into deployment we're getting towards
the end of deployment Michael gripped the phone close to his mouth hey dad we're just about done
here I volunteered to stay for a few more operations so one of the guys could leave early his wife is
having a baby soon it won't be long I expect to be finished up in about a week I'll also be helping
do to do turnover with the incoming team then I'm heading out my stuff is packed and ready to go
that's great news Mikey your mom and I can't wait to see you we're gonna celebrate and have a big
party when you get backstage side George felt a great relief to learn that Mikey was so close to
coming home and almost silly for having thought that he may not see his son again take care of yourself
and we'll see you soon and that's something you told me uh oh a little while ago was that Mikey
was always telling you about who's married and checking in on who has kids and that was a big
concern is was he knew who had kids who was married and he he would tell me I worry about these guys
he goes I don't want to be the guy that lost one of these uh one of these guys who has children
because he believed fathers mothers is you know a two-person deal and uh he's always loved kids and
he just would be so bothered knowing that on his watch somebody lost the father and he would talk
about I mean I mean people really want to find out who's got kids in there but he he would want to
know and he would keep keep it in the back of his mind so I know it always concerned him because he
just didn't want to lose a father it was the 28th of September and the first of the 506 had one last
request Operation Kentucky Jumper the SEALs would be providing overwatch for Combat Outpost Eagle's
Nest while the external wall of the Combat Outpost was being reinforced in addition the first of
the 506 would be conducting a clearance in the same area which the SEALs would cover as well
the insert would take place at night the two elements would leave cop eagles nest and set up
mutually supporting rooftop overwatch positions in two prominent houses much like they had been
doing for the entire deployment the men had conducted this type of operation many times and
at this point it seemed like this one would be much the same so they push in they do this overwatch
around 11 a.m the army moved out of the area having finished operations for the day the SEAL
overwatch positions remained in place and would extract under the cover of darkness later that
night other than the first of the 506 doing clearance ops and us being in the area providing
overwatch it was kind of a somber day Doug said referring to how the day was going in comparison
to other similar operations they had completed based on most of the previous operations the
likelihood of the firefight was low of another firefight was low the temperature was reaching
115 degrees and they would stay there until late in the afternoon and only begin to cool when the
sun dip below the horizon as the morning turned into day and then early afternoon Michael Doug
and Mike S talked of heading home and what was next for each of them there was a sense of excitement
we were proud of what we did we were proud of our relationships we had built with the army in the
Marine Corps recalls Mike Surrelly the men talked of their families Doug would be headed back to
Georgia to see his three sons Mike S was ready to get back to his two-year-old little girl
Michael listened as the guy spoke of heading home he was ready as well sniper school heading into
his next platoon snowboarding trips and driving up the coast to see his family in Garden Grove
Doug recalls how cool and relaxed Michael was he just had a real calming sense to him
you could tell instantly what a great person and warrior he was to this point it was the most one
on one time Doug had spent with Michael as the day continued on the intense heat had begun to wear on
the men the shade material help but not but the heat radiated from surfaces all around them not
even the light breeze brought reprieve the air was stifling dry and filled with dust the lack of
activity and the heat induced lethargy degrading the men's awareness boom an explosion rocked the
rooftop Michael ran back over to the position between Mike S and Doug what was that RPG asked Doug
sure seemed like it Mike S replied the anger on Michael's face was apparent as he searched for the
insurgent responsible for the attack Mike S moved out of his loophole and called the other element
we just took an RPG searching for the shooter now what have you guys got Doug rolled into the open
spot as it had a better field of view than his loophole Michael sat on the chair between the two
with his mark 48 resting on the wall of the rooftop Mike S continued updating the other element while
Michael Doug and Benny scan the area they saw nothing no enemy movement suddenly an object
just barely cleared the lip of the wall and hit Michael in the chest it bounced off and rolled
to the ground directly in front of him Mike S looked over at what had just landed next to the
group then up at Michael Michael stood so quickly and with such force that the chair he was sitting
on sailed across the rooftop and impacted the opposite wall Michael looked at Mike S and yelled
grenade Mike S watched in disbelief as Michael the only one of them who had an out to escape the
blast instead lunged forward dropping directly onto the grenade Seth's element had heard and seen
the two blasts from their overwatch position and were already moving when the call for help came in
the men urgently picked up the pace when they heard the amount of enemy automatic weapon fire that
their friends were receiving they broke out from the main house the main entrance and headed west
initially it was all quiet at their position but within 15 seconds of hitting the street all
hell broke loose enemy rounds snapped and skipped around them they moved from cover to cover returning
fires they closed the distance to the other overwatch position they were only two blocks away
but to the wounded seals it seemed like it took forever for the other element to arrive
hold on Mikey hold on Mike S said as he and Doug continued to assess and aid Michael suddenly a
seal from the other element burst onto the roof and headed over to Doug Mike S and Michael he was
followed by Seth and the other seals one of the strongest seals grabbed Michael and hoisted him
onto his back Seth grabbed Doug and the others took Mike S they could hear the 25 millimeter
auto cannons of the Bradley fighting vehicles begin to fire effectively suppressing the enemy
and providing cover for the seals to load their wounded
Mike S directed the group as they moved down the stairs and into the alley to the waiting
Bradley's Doug Mike S and Michael were loaded onto the into the back along with one of the seals
from the other element he stayed to continue to aid Michael while the Bradley's extracted them
and headed back to Camp Corregidor when the wounded seals arrived they saw the men from the
first the 506 lined up waiting to support whatever they could another testament to the bond that
the two units and shared Doug Mike S and Michael were loaded onto stretchers and brought into the
aid station on the camp Doug and Mike S were given shots of morphine for the first time
since the grenade explosion they finally had reprieve from the physical piercing pain the
reprieve however was short lived the atmosphere in the room shifted the mood had darkened and the
two men could feel it then they overheard the nurse say it Michael was gone and that sobering
moment they became aware of what Michael had given them he had freely exchanged his life for theirs
it was September 29th the feast day of st. Michael the art a arch angle the arch angel
the protector and guide of warfighters since time immemorial and whom Michael had been named
25 years earlier
it was a bad day for the family
remember Jim called me to hear him crying
dad is bad it's bad i said what's bad he says
uh Michael Michael died from Monty please get ahold of Joe
tried to call Joe and i finally got ahold of him he was uh
playing football in north dakota and uh i couldn't even tell him finally got ahold of him i couldn't
even tell him i couldn't even talk i said just call your brother and i guess when sal saw him at
the door the navy she just knew it was a bad day i just uh because we you had that call that says
i'm coming home so now it's like all your planning is what we're going to do when we get together uh
didn't happen
i uh well so i had been tracking the operation i was in the tactical operation center and and it
was troops in contact which was like like i said this was like a almost daily occurrence that guys
would be in there and then you know you got you hear wounded and now all of a sudden that's not
common and um the kazovaks get called and i can hear some of the radio calls and i i end up redirecting
the kazovak to their location and and finally it was actually colonel carc god bless him
um he he called me and um
yeah he told me uh
he told me uh serelli and dug he said they were they were wounded but they're going to be all right
he said benny was going to be okay he said that serelli and and and dug we're going to be for
you know getting flown out and he said and he said mikey wasn't going to make it
and um
um i mean we sent guys to escort mikey home and i mean we still had to finish deployment we still
had to turn over with the next guys and and thankfully andrew paul he's the guy that that
had come home early yeah mike really ate them so he could have his wife could have the baby
and so he knew i mean obviously he was mikey's you know assistant platoon commander with seth and
and and thankfully he was home so that he could be there but i mean as soon i talked to seth seth
and seth had to go back out into town by the way they got back and seth had to go back
into the city because they left their iraqis there they left a bunch of gear there and so
seth had to go back out gather up their iraqis gather up all their gear come back and then he
called me and he immediately he he knew um he said hey mikey jumped on that mikey jumped on a grenade
and a few hours later i talked to uh mike and dug and they're in germany and they're like
hey he saved us that's the only reason we're here and um i talked to seth and seth was like
drafting up the medal of honor and i was like do it
and i remember i did when seth came to visit the house and you want to see him you know it's like
i've had it with you guys i only want to see it seth is hard to say no to because you can see
the sincerity on the space and i don't know the family we just worked it out but
we can cry at any moment when we think of mike that's um it's the way it is i know uh
uh and man sarah your daughter what a what a just awesome woman very strong very strong and i remember
her and i don't know she said it to me but i think i remember her seeing it later people were you
guys were getting interviewed she was getting interviewed and she was basically someone said
are you know you are you surprised that this happened and she said no anybody that knew mikey
is not surprised by this um
yeah uh
when at what point did you hear about the medal of honor
uh what happened was uh
uh some guy from the newspapers called us about it and i didn't know what he was talking about
and we hadn't gotten so many calls all kinds of things we had hate calls we had uh newspapers
interviews most of the stuff we said no and uh we just want to be left alone in fact we were so
used to getting bad calls uh i remember the president uh was trying to call us because
this is when they decided to award him um the medal and uh sarah kept trying to tell me um
would you pick up the phone and i was thinking this is i go what's this guy keeps bothering me
it's just the same number i don't know what this asshole wants and then she could stab would you
just pick up the phone you know so that's when we knew it was real because you hear people everyone
is talking with you you know to do this and that but i mean it's nice but it's not your son yeah you
know and uh it's uh it our family appreciated it but you know that hole is still there i think anyone
who's lost a child i don't care if it's uh in the hospital an accident there's a hole and we're in a
real sad family and me and debbie lee we're talking about it it's just it's just there and it just
hits you everyone's smile hearing kids playing the playground or something like that it just hits
you it's you just don't get over it but uh we were treated very very nicely surprising
because i was in the Marines and uh the seal family is totally different and i was kind of shocked
i was like almost too sorry okay well leave us alone you know but uh i was really taken back by
you know these guys coming over and checking on the family and it was a good thing
at what point did you hear about the ship i was about i remember uh dr o winter talked about
uh a ship and see we don't know anything about the navy uh we're not into the ceremony stuff and it
was like yeah okay whatever uh didn't you know uh really think about it it was just in passing we
thought and then a while later maybe uh six months later uh we get this thing where uh they're going
to name a ship after michael we had no no idea it was going to be like 10 years i mean it was just
incredible and it was like fly here fly there and that's why my kids were like we're not going any
place we didn't realize it was going to turn into a job and uh it was everything was nice and uh
uh but it's not something we really wanted uh we were real happy to just go back to
simple nobody knows this and so it was it was busy for the first couple years and finally it you
know it disappeared and it was okay but um oh my goodness i would think leave it to mikey
he still got something going on and even this book people will talk to me uh we'd have a writer
sitting on our porch wanting to write a book and what's the hat it does and we passed on all of them
and then just uh when one of the sailors did a book on michael and gave it to a submissive at
the cemetery and that's when i started thinking my grandchildren should have a book because they
should see what it's like um you know they got to understand that michael uncle michael went through
some of the same things they went through you know it just doesn't happen you've got to have
you know you've got to be able to figure things out you have to be strong enough because when
you're a kid you're bullied or you're you know you're not sure of yourself the world is is really
scary for him and i thought it would be good that they could see their uncle had the same kind of
problems and he got through it and they can get through it too so and i would hope anybody who would
read this the same thing you know a young man or reading this realizes he's he's got a long ways to
go in his life and um he can pull himself together some guys uh i hired a lot of young people in my
time and some of them they just never got that message now they're in their 30s and 40s and
they're still children yeah so um yeah it's it's weird too i i i gotta admit from my perspective
when you talk about mikey like as a boy by the time he was in the teams which is when i met him
yeah he was no boy no and and and then i was telling you this before we started recording like
he was getting big yeah so he cut the sleeves off all the shirts everything's hard to call him
sleeves because he was just like getting jacked but i mean he was you know even even when we say
kevin lace kevin lace is a really big guy but mikey was also big so it's interesting when you
put it all together and like you say the arc of the book the mikey i knew was just a badass right
and he might have been a new guy and he might have been you know like young for the seal teams yeah
but he was a badass so to connect that to this guy who you know had asthma and got bullied and
like like while i knew mike mike was not getting bullied by anybody you know what i'm saying so he
had overcome all that and and and like you said um it risen up and at the same time that he had that
quality like there's literally no one else that you would rather have to watch your back yeah
no he was if if he said i've got it he meant it you know if he says you're my friend you could
you take it to the bank he will do everything uh that he can if you if you have a problem and i
remember gabe talking about how close they were gabe was uh was greek and michael being uh lobanese
they would he would call him his lobanese brother no they call him his Mediterranean brother
i'm gonna go out and choke on some olives or something i don't know uh you know this the
stuff with the ship um i mean it was it was i see i got to look at it from afar right i wasn't
all mixed up in it like you guys were flying all the time yeah uh you guys the keel this is from
the book the keel laying is the first of three ceremonies in the life of a ship symbolizing
the ship's transition from a mere concept to a product that will one day become a us warship
navy tradition is celebrated special keel laying ceremony for hundreds of years and so it talks
about the fact that you guys went to bath iron works up in main and and welded your initials onto
this like piece that goes in there that's sort of the that's sort of the initial there's just so
much tradition yeah that the navy has and it was yeah we would do those things and i and then
sal welded something in uh on the bridge someplace you know and it's like yeah and they somehow got
wood this guy captain smith is a great guy captain scott smith who like took this with the utmost
seriousness of course because he's the first commanding officer of this ship and he got they
got wood from the uss constitution like crazy how do you do that uh you have this here each
naval warship has its own crest and motto and captain smith who's the first commanding officer
took meticulous efforts to honor the ship's namesake with each one for the crest he was given
parameters of simply using a shield the rest was up to him he knew exactly what to do in order to
make sure the ship honored its names it's the ship and namesake perfectly there were a handful of
people family teammates and friends he would need to talk to was introduced to steve gilmore
retired surface naval surface warfare he's the best uh he he is he's just on your side oh he's
he's he's a hundred percent uh he helped me uh i'm very good friends with him and he helped me
with everything i ever need to help with and look i caused all kinds of trouble for that poor guy i
was constantly constantly caused that he would bail me out of all kinds of things so thank you
mr steve gilmore uh but he was able to connect captain smith with a bunch of different people
captain smith sat down for hours with each group learned as much as he could in order to create
something remarkable that would inspire his future crew members they would collectively come up with
the the connected with it with uh uh something that connected the family with the navy as well as
the ship's unique components and so this is for the motto of the ship became i will defend which
carries a three-fold meaning every military member takes an oath to support and defend the constitution
another prominent middle military ethos says i will defend the defenseless and the saint michael prayer
calls upon the mighty angelic soldier to defend us in battle have you been in have you been in the
ship i have when i talked to scott i was like uh we wanted something for the seals not to be forgotten
and uh that's why if you walk in you'll see the pictures of those other seals and uh it was important
to us that those seals aren't forgotten because sometimes congressional medal of honor people
forget about these people well pain is the same and we wanted to remember them on that ship so
he did a good job for us no they did a beautiful job the ship was the ship was awesome and they
ended up with the the there's a flintlock pistol which came from the trident other thing which is
awesome there's a there's a roman numeral three which is like legit for team three scott did his
homework yeah i know he definitely um definitely did an awesome job with all that and eventually uh
the ship gets christened and and that was just awesome um christening took place that was up in
bath as well up in main that was when uh sally broke the that was fun for her she was so for
i just want to make sure i hit it hard enough i go well put my face right there
i'm sure you'll be able to pet muster it and that thing
uh and then finally you get the actual ships commissioning yeah and this is when the ship
becomes a us navy ship but it says here major hallowday was announced and approached the podium
to give the invocation he had flown in all the way from korea for the special event upon finishing
his opening prayer the other speakers approached the podium one after the other they rendered their
special remarks and honored the family of the ship's namesake as well as the impressive ship
itself then major general ron clark who was formerly a lieutenant colonel who is now a major
general this is how long it's been he's definitely a general who led the first of 506 red cur he battalion
during the battle of vermonti walked commandingly over to the podium we few we happy few we band of
brothers for he today that shares that sheds his blood with me shall be my brother the bravery and
sacrifice of these warriors is the highest form of service to our nation at a time when less than
one percent of american citizens will ever don the cloth of our nation in her defense these men
and women endured hardship danger and personal sacrifice every day to protect our country and
our way of life let me be very clear our band of brothers was brought together through our fight
against a tough and violent enemy in fact we refer to seal team three as army seals it was the fight
that brought us together but really what defined our task force was one word love a brotherly love
that warriors in arms share in battle defined by selfless commitment to a mission and selfless
commitment unfailing to one another there is no greater human emotion than the feeling to belong
to a team to a unit to a brotherhood to a family my association with these warriors has been the
most meaningful professional relationships of my life then you can anybody who served understands
that I mean there are guys that I met in the service that I love them as much as my own brothers
and the kind of situation in Ramadi that's even deeper yeah debbie lee will will explain that
you know mark would tell her these guys are my brothers and she'd say what what do you mean like
you have brother you know it's not the same and and then when mark died and she met all of us she
realized oh you are brothers yeah put the seal squeeze on her too finally the ship sponsor and
soul woman on stage walk to the podium she smiled or humbled demeanor evident all in attendance she
began by sharing her heartfelt gratitude to all who were with them to honor her son she continued
thanking the men and women of the military whom she regarded as the best in the world finally without
further ado she gave an order that the crew had been eagerly awaiting to hear officers and crew
of the USS michael monsoor man our ship and bring her to life that was a good day that was awesome
and they we weren't the ship's crew but they had task unit bruiser was the guys that ran up yeah
and manned the ship yeah luckily we didn't have to drive anywhere with it or anything because none
of us know how to do any of that but but man it was just awesome to see that and and yeah you hustled
pretty good i saw you guys out there for their goal was last time those guys read well so uh you
know the guys before yeah they're like hey zharko like don't run too fast because like some guys
ain't doing too much right so of course i'm all fired up with adrenaline and i'm all hyped and i
guess i went a little quicker than i showed up you know wore some of the guys out uh and just to
close this out um father halloweday stepped up to the podium let us pray heavenly father bless
and approve this newly commissioned vessel the USS michael monsoor and its crew send your holy
angels as custodians and guides may michael and the arch angel ever defend it in battle be its
protector against all enemies and ravages of foul weather may this vessel and crew always know the
friendship of the creatures of the deep the camaraderie of the winds and the enmity of the tides
and may the USS michael monsoor ever know the unified patronage of the citizens of heaven the
creatures of earth and every mission it undertakes to restore peace ensure freedom and enact justice
for all i've met so many really wonderful people uh over this and uh father halloweday was uh was
won uh he also did a mass and baptized uh joseph son on that ship yeah so there's just a lot of
really really great people and um as far as that sal and i were just some good times well
now is that is that joseph son mickey yeah well mickey's yeah it is the weirdest thing right so
as you know i i wrote this book mickey and the dragons right and it's obviously it's the mickey's
named after mickey and my friend john bozak's the artist and uh i'm like hey you know here's the story
and so he sends me the first pictures and they're black and white so i don't really think much of it
and then first color one comes and in the book he's got mickey with blonde hair and i'm like hey man
you know like mickey's freaking lebanese bro he's black hair and but then when you look at the book
and he's like talking me through it you look at the book like even the cover like the it's all black
and he got this blonde head kid makes the kid stand out i'm like yeah all right well hey we're gonna
bleach out mickey a little bit but then i meet little mickey yeah and sure enough he's a toe head
yeah i think i told you i was complaining to joe i says joe you got three little girls and you got
mickey and they're all toe heads i says you couldn't have given me one brown kid with a big nose
seriously oh man um but i mean it is awesome seeing that ship and and with this book that you just
wrote with rosen rose did a fantastic job you know she's married to a seal so she captured a lot of
stuff she put up with a lot of stuff yeah i'm sure it was a challenge just trying to get stories out
of guys everyone's on all different schedules no she did a great job and and because she's married
to a seal i think she captured it in a way that um a normal author wouldn't have been able to yeah
when we talked um i'm she pestered me for two years and steve are going i don't know i think
she's pretty good anyway uh we talked it was like um i said we don't we want real stories because
she gave a synion samples of of uh other of authors and they wrote about the glory of war and all
that and i said i want to vomit i said that is not what we're looking for we want real stuff
and so uh what was good about the seals is she couldn't call them they wouldn't give her the
time of day i would call them and tell them what i'd like to do and we had a lot of stories but a
lot of the guys they didn't want to share those stories it was personal and so i respect that
but some of the guys uh after a couple of calls uh they would open up uh to uh to rose and uh i felt
like as they opened up they actually felt good about it and it kind of like let some let out a
little bit of uh some of that pressure what happened over there and i was surprised how many said it
was okay if they used uh you know their name so that's when i started thinking well then they probably
feel pretty good about it and it's these are all true stories so uh i i think it's uh it's a book
that uh is worth reading no it's uh it's a hundred percent worth reading and that's a way for mickey's
legacy to you know to carry on you carry on the ship and it's great when you meet the ship and the
ship's crew they're they all know the story they're all fired up i mean they do an awesome thing and
and it's written about in the book as well as you know when you pull into san diego harbour
off to your left hand side is rosecrance where mickey's buried and you know actually marx buried
there and sestones buried there but when you pull in they they man the rails and they give the the
ship salute you know to mickey which is just awesome so you get the legacy carrying on with the crew
with the ship in this book um and in the the young you know the young seals today they're this is what
they're raised on they're raised on this is what uh this is this is the ideal seal this is a guy that
works hard that's never going to give up and that's going to take care of his brothers and that's
that's mickey well you have those i think you have marx in there and and and mickey's is uh when
the seals come in there they see those displays yeah and i i actually think it's important so people
don't forget um no matter who it is there are guys that really uh they believed in what they did and
these young seals should know that um it's passed on to them well thank you so much for writing
this book uh thanks to rose as well thanks for coming down here uh echo you got any questions no sir
no sir you just woke him up
anybody that's listening the books available will have it on our website but you can get it on amazon
you can get it wherever books are sold just get it i mean give it to give it to everybody that you
know give it to like you mentioned teenagers for sure because i think they can understand
and it even you know it's not like uh it's not like this pro thing where they're gonna
kids or parents are scared their kids are going to run out and join the military
it's the journey that he took and what he uh overcame and these kids who are feeling you
know insecure they got to know that there's other guys out there just like them and they did it
and they can these kids can also get through it and it's important and that's why i did it for my
grandkids and i think i told you my my granddaughter uh she first weekend um in boot camp and she i gave
her one of these books uh for the trip and she read it and she said when i read the story she
hate boot camp so much and uh she goes but i realized you know life is tough and there's
it's a journey and we have to go through these things and mike was my inspiration she goes we
had to run a mile and a half and i've never run faster and she goes i just she says thanks grandpa
for writing the book it's important so eventually um all the kids will get one and a couple of words
i want to take out but i don't know it's a true story so what am i gonna do it's surprisingly
clean considering it's about well yeah i don't know yeah uh but but no it's awesome and uh any
any other closing thoughts i think that gets us up to present date no i do want to thank you for uh
for the respect for our family and especially uh how much you helped out sally i mean she uh
she really appreciated in the time where she couldn't get to the uh into the cemetery
and she says to me she goes i hope i didn't uh i didn't uh disturb him or anything i thought he
was on base and i go oh is he wearing him i think he was just wearing t-shirts and his shorts
and i said i don't think that's the uh the uniform of the day uh no that wasn't the uniform of the day
i think you're on vacation or something i don't know yeah i wasn't at work yeah we got to college
and hey if uh sally wants to go and visit her son uh rosecrant she's gonna get in there yeah
she was thrilled she was just so happy because it's like an hour and a half two hours drive
and uh she didn't know that uh they closed up you know at that time but uh i really want to
thank you because she was treated very well with the seals and with you and i also want to thank
you for attending her funeral it was very nice it was an honor to be there and it's a
an honor to help share this story of mickey and thanks for joining us um thanks for you know the
sacrifice of you your whole family i mean that thanks for uh
uh
for raising us on like mickey
and for sharing them with us we won't forget it well we really appreciate the seal community and
like i said we appreciated uh the way we were treated the respect from you and this family was
important i just wanted to close that out because who knows when i'm gonna see you again and i really
appreciate this moment so thanks jacko thank you and with that george monsoor has left the building
and once again life is a gift
and thanks for listening
we appreciate it and if you want to support the podcast
well first of all get the book like i said i read like little pieces of the book
the book has a bunch more in it they did a great job writing it so order the book
what is it is it christmas season yet or yeah technically i think it's kind of the
even if you're having a lean christmas yeah even if you're having a lean christmas just
order the book today and you can give it to everybody that you know so we'll just start with that
support this book please um if you want to further support the podcast while you're supporting
yourself go and get some jockel fuel from jockel fuel dot com you can get drinks energy drinks
you can get protein you can get joint warfare bunch of stuff that's going to help you jockel
fuel dot com also you can get the drinks at wah wah you can get everything at vitamin shop the
military commissary commissaries hana ferds dash stores in maryland wake fern and shop right
circle k in florida h e b and tay haas murphy's in the southeast and myer in the midwest so if you
need jockel fuel go there and get it or jockel fuel dot com true yeah george offline was asking
about like hey do you have anything for joints and aches because i'm getting older we do we do
do yeah if you go read the reviews of joint warfare it's legit yeah so yeah so it's one of
those things where i mean you know when you're young you know you don't pay attention to that
kind of stuff but if you maintain like solid health joint that bar you'll flow right into uh old
adulthood and be fine trust me i know that's where i'm at old adulthood it is super cool too
yeah honestly it's kind of a double it's kind of a double attack yeah yeah that's they pair together
well as we say so there you go jockel fuel dot com get it also origin usa hunt coming out yeah yeah
yeah i could you feel that once george started talking about factory and production i was like
almost gonna go down the path of all of a sudden we could be talking about made in america and what
it's like running production and what it's like to you know build or make clothing because that's
what he was doing running a factory yeah so uh but we luckily i refrained from going down the path
and talking about that uh but we are making stuff in america origin usa dot com go get some stuff
there get hunt gear by the way we're making as fast as we can hey will we know you bought it is it
what is it still pre-order right now no no we're shipping it out as fast as we can oh i haven't
i demand yeah i haven't but we've we're shipping it out as fast as we can we're making as fast as
we can we appreciate the patience uh we're working it that's what we're doing but hey genes get those
delta genes the delta 68's delta 68's are just the the deal kind of 100 now look if you live in
michigan you live in minnesota you might get the factory genes which are a little heavier
because it's a winter time you might be feeling it if you're in the southern america
or in a warm place in the world you're gonna want those delta 68's all day all day
and you're probably training jujitsu it's how it all started by the way the jujitsu gays you
don't need to get one that's made in a communist country you get one that's made by free people
not slaves that's origin usa dot com go get it it's true also jaco's store jaco's store
just so we can get your shirts and hoodies and hats and stuff rash guards on there as well
but yeah discipline equals freedom it's good you want to represent it's a good place to get
your stuff can you get that thing that you're wearing right now is that a yes sort of jackel
store yep it's called deluxe it's called team discipline team discipline yep you named it
yep you don't really naming shirts no well they all have names okay actually you know okay so you
know the shirt you're wearing right now your uniform what what is that tier i don't forget how
the tiers work in uniform three i don't know if there's such a thing as a tier or what do you call
there's like a the dress oh yeah dress blues and whatever class a's or something like that yeah
well either way my general uniform that's your uniform right that shirt that shirt is called
black ops i actually knew that so i guess i knew this yes i knew this shirt was called but there's a
white white one called declassified oh and then now there's a new one cleverness there's a new one
it's just like that but instead of the dark gray it's red it's called red team dang look at you
can i get at a gray one yeah i don't you know what would that be called uh yeah i don't know we
don't make currently make the gray one but hey look i'll look into it i know a guy and you know maybe
we'll uh make that happen a gray one huh could be cool gray shirt gray shirts because they don't get
dirty but they're cool in the sun call it um gray area or gray operations isn't that a thing when
it's not right or wrong you know it's like a gray we call it gray area one of those things
either way yes jockels store we also have the short locker these designs are
are interesting the last one was is called or this month is called the heavies that's a bad
ass t-shirt by the way yeah carry k-doc the heavies is good yeah that little section of that podcast
yeah freaking good section the heavies are rolling in yep but yeah that's a subscription
scenario you get a new shirt every month people seem to like it so check that out also there it's
called the shirt shortlock it's on jockel store yeah and subscribe to the podcast and subscribe to
jockel underground.com this is why we're doing it because right now you see some social media
activities that are going on right now there's mayhem out there right isn't there mayhem out there
it's mayhem out there there's mayhem out there so we got to watch out for that and well you just
got to watch out for that so that's where we have jockel underground we got a youtube you can subscribe
to that origin USA has some stuff on youtube to check that one out psychological warfare flip side
canvas dakota meyer something makes some cool stuff to hang on your wall books already obviously
defend us in battle just order that book just get it only cry for the living by holly mckay get that
book and then i've written a bunch of books too but whatever kids books you know mickey and the
dragons let's let's give that one some props mickey the dragons overcoming fear obviously
mickey the character is named after mike monsoir about overcoming fear uh echelon front we have a
leadership consultancy we solve problems through leadership go to echelonfront.com for details
next event or lando april third through the fifth that's the next muster april third through the
fifth 2023 it's going to come quick that's the weird thing it's going to sell out quick everything
sells out we oversold the last muster we oversold we had to like move the instructor seating
to the to the behind the curtain yeah type scenario yeah so we won't make that mistake again
but we will sell out so there you go orlando april third through the fifth 2023 and then dalis
is also in 2023 we got the battlefield we got ftx we got all kinds of good stuff going on
echelonfront.com we also have online training at extreme ownership academy go to extreme ownership
dot com we covered the stuff i was there i was on there live today answering questions
laif was on there live today answering questions we have courses to take so go to extreme ownership
dot com if you want to learn how to live your life better especially your interactions with other humans
and if you want to help service members active and retired you want to help their families gold
star families check out marg lees mom mama lee she's got a charity organization and she will be
coming on the podcast very soon and if you want to donate or get involved with her organization
go to america's mighty warriors dot org and also don't forget about mica fink up there
in the the north country with heroes and horses dot org helping veterans find themselves
while they get a little bit lost out there in the wilderness and speaking of social media we're on
social media on the gram on twitter it's a new twitter these days and nothing's changed really
isn't you haven't noticed any change yet besides the fact that you lost your twitter account yeah
there's a hacked i got hacked and then they abused it they took it over yeah they took it the hackers
took out over my account to do a bunch of spam stuff that's and then twitter shut it down because
it was a bot now but then luckily you said try get it get it back your old handles or registered
again on my old handle so you got it back so you're still at echo charles still at echo charles i wonder
if that's us going to change because elon's coming in eight dollars and this all this stuff is going
on so yeah we'll see heard about people are freaking out about all kinds of things the thing is all
this social media facebook the gram twitter you just got to watch out because the algorithm will
grab you that's what's going to happen and uh once again thanks to thanks to george monstor for
coming on board and and really um the entire monstor family who have been blessed to have gotten to know
know over the past 15 years um just been amazing an honor to know them and it's an honor to be here
and and share the story of mikey uh absolute hero an example for all of us so thank you to the
entire monstor family and thanks to all the people from the military in general the army navy
air force marines as you could probably tell we had an incredible relationship with all of them
and we thank you for supporting us on the battlefield and in the past and now those that
are still active duty out there protecting us today thank you and we also want to thank our police
law enforcement firefighters paramedics emt's dispatchers correctional officers border patrol
secret service all first responders out there you protect us here at home and we thank you for it
and everyone else out there on mikey's gravestone at force fort rosecrans national cemetery
he gives some advice on there and it's the same thing that he told his dad all those years before
deployment that no matter what happens i have no regrets
so let's go try to live like mikey did
work hard if you get knocked down get back up again and overcome and of course put others first
live your life and leave no regrets and until next time this is echo and jocco out